MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 15, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 15, 19 73. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 2] 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 3/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 3/ 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a proposed 
•^tter, with changes in wording, to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
ai*cisco conveying the Board's view that the automobile leasing 
activities of Alameda Bancorporation, Inc., Alameda, California, are 
i/ Joined meeting and withdrew at points indicated in minutes. 
2/ 
- 
Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes 
- 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4 0 1 3 
10/15/73 
-2-
Permissible under the Board's existing Regulation Y, Bank Holding 
Companies. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
^ank of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, to establish a branch in Georgetown, 
G^and Cayman, Cayman Islands, British West Indies. A copy of the letter 
S e n t to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
city Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire 
shares of Citicorp Credit (Saipan), Saipan, Mariana Islands, and for 
Citicorp Credit (Saipan) to issue certain debt obligations. A copy of 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Northeast 
^ankshare Association, Lewiston, Maine, to acquire shares of Sanford 
U st Company, Sanford, Maine, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Commerce 
^ancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of a company 
to K 
°e organized to engage in the underwriting, as reinsurer, of credit 
1 -j c 
£ e and credit accident and health insurance. The Board authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of which is attached 
a S 
5. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Waverly 
In estment Company, Waverly, Missouri, to become a bank holding company 

4014 
10/15/73 
-3-
through the acquisition of shares of Bank of Waverly and to acquire 
shares of Mallen Insurance Agency, both of Waverly. The Board authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of which is attached 
a s Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Ellis Banking 
Corporation, Bradenton, Florida, to acquire shares of Commercial Bank 
°f Sarasota, Sarasota, Florida, a proposed new bank, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved, for transmittal to the Federal 
deposit Insurance Corporation, a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of Houston State Bank, Houston, Mississipp 
into Grenada Bank, Grenada, Mississippi. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Grenada Bank 
with Houston State Bank would eliminate some existing competi-
tion, and the effect of the proposal on competition would be 
slightly adverse. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Report on competitive factors. In a memorandum of October 4, 19 73 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed consolidation of The First National Bank of 
Versailles, Versailles, Ohio, and The Peoples Bank Company, also of 
Versailles, concluding that the competitive effects of the proposed trans-
ition would be adverse. 

4 0 1 5 
10/15/73 
-4-
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the report, 
with the conclusion regarding competitive factors changed to read as 
follows: 
Consummation of the proposed consolidation of The First 
National Bank of Versailles and The Peoples Bank Company, 
Versailles, would eliminate some existing competition, and 
the effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
First Bankshares Corp. In a memorandum of September 13, 1973, 
the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of Supervision 
a^d Regulation recommended approval of applications by First Bankshares 
GorP. of S. C., Columbia, South Carolina, (1) to retain shares of August 
Kohn and Company, Inc., also of Columbia, after applicant acquired such 
shares from its banking subsidiary, The First National Bank of South 
Carolina, also of Columbia; and (2) to acquire shares of Stevenson, 
Zimmerman and Company, Charleston, South Carolina. 
At its meeting on October 4, 1973, the Board deferred action on 
these applications pending further analysis of the case. In a memorandum 
°f October 10, 1973, the Division of Research and Statistics provided 
ad<Htional data and recommended approval of the applications. With a 
mettorandum of October 12, 1973, the Legal Division submitted a revised 
draft order. 
At today's meeting, the Board unanimously approved the applications 
a n d authorized issuance of an order, with changes in wording, reflecting 
this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 8. 

4 0 1 G 
10/15/73 
-5-
Chairman Burns and Governor Brimmer joined the meeting at this 
point. 
Economic review. The staff presented a review of domestic and 
international developments of the kind customarily given in preparation 
for meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical 
Materials prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, 
along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Rippey then reviewed legislative developments of interest 
to the System. 
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Southwest Bancshares. In a memorandum of August 31, 1973, the 
division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of a request 
by 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, for modification of the 
board's order of March 23, 1973, which permitted Southwest Bancshares to 
acquire shares of the successor by merger to Arlington Bank of Commerce, 
Arlington, Texas, through a stock-for-stock exchange. The desired modifi-
cation would permit the acquisition by the use of cash rather than stock. 
In a memorandum of October 10, 19 73, the Legal Division recommended 
that the Board delay action on this matter, and that the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas be requested to contact the Board upon receipt from the 
aPpli cant of a request for an additional extension of time in which to 
c°nsummate the acquisition. In a memorandum of October 11, 19 73, the 
division of Supervision and Regulation indicated its concurrence in this 
Commendation. 

4017 
10/15/73 
-6-
Following discussion in which the applicant's current legal 
difficulties were considered, the Board unanimously denied the request 
for modification of the March 23, 19 73, order. It was understood that 
the staff would so inform the applicant. 
duPont Trust. In a memorandum of October 12, 1973, the Legal 
Division recommended approval of a draft determination and order and of 
a draft letter to the Trustees of the Estate of Alfred I. duPont concerning 
the divestiture by duPont Trust of its control of Florida National Banks 
°f Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida. 
The Board unanimously approved the letter and authorized issuance 
°f the order, with changes in wording. Copies of these documents are 
attached as Items 9 and 10; a copy of the pertinent press release is 
attached as Item No. 11. 
Proposed amendments to Regulation Q. In pursuance of the 
discussion of the subject at its meeting on October 12, 1973, the Board 
today continued consideration of proposals to amend Regulation Q, Interest 
Deposits, with respect to interest rate ceilings on 4-year consumer-type 
time deposits. In a memorandum of October 15, 1973, the Division of 
^search and Statistics reviewed recent efforts of the Interagency Coor-
dinating Committee on Bank Regulation to reach agreement on the new 
regulations. 
In today's discussion, the views expressed were substantially 
agreement with the consensus that the Board had reached earlier on 

4 0 1 8 
10/15/73 
-7-
the issues then under consideration. The Board also focused on the 
effective date of the proposed amendments. After taking into account 
the effects of the announcement of the amendments on the market situation, 
and the administrative and advertising impact on banks, the Board expressed 
a preference for November 1, 1973, as the effective date of the amendments, 
which, it was expected, could be announced within the next few days. 
Capital controls program. Governor Brimmer reported to the 
Board that the Administration was considering possible revisions in the 
CaPital controls program, and he said that he would like to have the 
benefit of the Board's preliminary views on this subject in anticipation 
a meeting he planned to attend with Administration officials later 
today to discuss the controls program. After discussion, it was under-
stood that Governor Brimmer would report back to the Board at a subsequent 
Meeting on the status of discussions with respect to this matter. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

4019 
BOARD D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
10/15/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
13 O A R D 
October 15, 1973 
Stephanie Teitelbaum 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
S a n Francisco, California 94120 
Dear Mrs. Teitelbaum: 
This is with reference, to the question you raised concerning 
the permissibility of the automobile leasing activities of Alameda Ban™ 
c°rporat;Lon, Inc. ("Alameda"), in connection with its proposal to open 
a new office. 
It is the Board's understanding that in computing the full-
Payout recovery of its automobile leases, Alameda considers the "estimated 
salvage value at the end of the minimum useful life allowed by the IRS" 
U 2 CFR 225.123(d)) to mean the estimated resale value of a vehicle, 
lanieda calculates the estimated resale value in a 3-year lease on the 
>asis of the current wholesale value of a comparable 3-year old vehicle, 
safety factor may be deducted from this amount.) At the termination 
the lease, bids are solicited for the leased vehicle and if the highest 
lci is greater than the estimated resale value, the lessee receives the 
^cess. Xf the highest bid is lower than the estimated resale value, the 
Gssee is obligated by the terms of the lease to make up the deficiency. 
u view of this provision of the lease and in view of Alameda's low loss 
xPericnce--as related by its representative's testimony at the Board's 
^Ptember 12, 1973, leasing hearing—it appears there is an unconditional 
, 1:i-gation guaranteeing full-payout recovery by bona fide lessees that 
ave the financial resources to meet such obligations. (See the Board's 
rdcr of June 29, 1973, concerning the application of Chemical New York 
Cfporation to acquire CNA Nuclear Leasing, Inc., 38 Federal Register 
a 
In these circumstances, it is the Board's view that Alameda's 
u t° leasing activities, as presently conducted, appear to be within the 
^CoPe of § 225.4(a)(6) of Regulation Y and <1 7375 of the Board's Published 
ntG*pretations, and the Board proposes to raise no question at this time 
L 0 the continuation of such activities. 

4020 
WITS. Stephanie Teitelbaum 
-2-
As you know, the Board currently is considering a revised 
regulation with respect to real and personal property leasing. In 
view of the pending proposal to amend the Board's leasing regulation, 
you may wish to respond to Alameda along the following lines: 
"On the basis of the facts presented, Alameda's auto 
leasing activities are within the scope of the Board's exist-
ing leasing regulation and interpretation. However, the Board 
is presently considering adoption of a revised real and personal 
property leasing regulation and approval, herein does not provide 
any assurance that Alameda's leasing activities will be permis-
sible under any such revised leasing regulation. Accordingly, 
continuation of Alameda's auto leasing activities are subject 
to the condition that, after adoption of any such revised leasing 
regulation, Alameda shall discontinue any leasing activities that 
do not meet the requirements of the revised regulation and that 
all leasing transactions entered into by Alameda after the Board's 
adoption of such revised regulation shall conform to the require-
ments of such revised regulation." 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

BCJARD OF G O V E R N D R5 
D F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
10/15/73 
A D D R E S G 
U F T I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E 
T O 
T H E 
G Q A R D 
October 15, 1973 
pirst National Bank of Maryland 
Light and Redwood Streets 
Baltimore, Maryland 21203 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to First National Bank of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, and 
to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Action and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
V l U 
be used for developing new international business and not as a 
^eans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
11 is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping may, 
a t least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
8°ing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
types of activities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, 
the condition thai reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
tlli-s branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
^elusions in provisos (1) and (2) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the fur-
uer condition that adequate information covering the branch's opera-
• w i l l be maintained at your head office and will be available to 
lG Board and its accredited representatives. The Board should be 
informed of any modification in the branch's methods of opera-
including changes in any contract under which services are sup-
Plied to the branch. 
k 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
b
Usiness on or before November 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall 
0 deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
Automatically terminate on that date. 

First National Bank of Maryland 
- 
2 
-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
bishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
^ e branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
0nly at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
Unitcd States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limita-
tions on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the re-
serve requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign brandies of United States banks to compete abroad with 
foreign banks. In these circumstances, if has long been and continues to 
b e the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by 
United States residents at foreign branches of United States banks unless 
such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose in 
connection with foreign or international transactions outside the United 
tates. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
Vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
vith minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in the conduct 
of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on resources 
0ktainCci outside the United States. Accordingly, it is understood that 
investment required will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
uidelinecj as they apply to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
'V 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4023 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/15/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 15, 1973 
Investment 
^irst National City Overseas/Corporation 
Park Avenue 
York, New York 10022 
GGntle. 
emen: 
As requested in your letter of August 1, 1973, the Board 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to 
P^chase and hold, directly or indirectly, all of the shares of Citicorp 
Credit (Saipan) ("CCS"), Saipan, Mariana Islands, at a cost of approxi-
mately $100,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
lle elate of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of CCS by FNC0IC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CCS if CCS at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act coulcl, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 
stock, or if CCS establishes any branch or agency or 
takes any action or undertakes any operation in Saipan 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would not 
be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of CCS as it may require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CCS be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if CCS were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

First National City Overseas Corporation 
- 2 -
(4) That CCS shall confine its insurance agency activities to 
the types permitted by Section 225.4(a)(9) of Regulation Y. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by CCS in Saipan in the currency 
o f that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
arik of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of CCS. 
The Board also grants consent for FNCOIC to continue to hold, 
directly or indirectly, CCS after CCS issues and has outstanding borrowings 
with maturities in excess of one year in an amount not to exceed $10,000,000. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the in-
vestment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
-hey apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4 0 2 5 
Item No. 4 
10/15/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
' 
NORTHEAST BANKSHARE ASSOCIATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Northeast Bankshare Association, Lewiston, Maine, a bank 
h o i d w 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
KaS aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
• 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more cf the voting shares 
°f sanford Trust Company, Sanford, Maine ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
arid 
° n e h as been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion 
n ir* light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
Applicant, the fourth largest of 25 commercial banking organiza-
Maine, controls seven banks, with aggregate deposits of approximately 
$196 
million, 
representing 12.4 per cent of the total deposits of commercial 
bar*ks i 
l n the State. Acquisition of Bank would increase Applicant's share of 
St*te d 
GPOsits by 1.6 percentage points to a total of 14 per cent and would not 
icantly increase the concentration of banking resources in the State. 
C0niPanC ^ a n k i n S d a C a a r e a s o f December 31, 1972, and reflect holding 
y formations and acquisitions approved through August 31, 1973. 
§ 3(b) 

4026 
-2-
UPou consummation of the proposed acquisition, Applicant would become 
third largest commercial banking organization in Maine. 
Bank ($25.4 million in deposits) is the largest of eight 
erciaj 
^rcial banks in the Sanford banking market (approximated by York County 
18 the towns of Saco and Old Orchard Beach) and controls approximately 
20 P e r - 
- 
1/ 
cent of the deposits in commercial banks in the market. 
The 
and ix 
Second and third largest commercial banks in this market control 14.4 per cent 
per cent, respectively. Applicant's subsidiary bank closest to Bank is 
Cated 32 miles away in Westbrook, which is in the adjacent Portland banking 
^rket 
XT 
• wo meaningful competition exists between Bank and any of Applicant's 
lary banks. Although there exists the possibility of future competition 
Ping between Applicant's Westbrook subsidiary and Bank (in view of Maine 
permits branching into counties contiguous to that in which a 
Sik»s , o m e office is located). the number of financial institutions 
^eadv 
y operating in Bank's market and.the market's growth rate indicate 
V 
a Uch possibility is remote. 
Moreover, it appears that affiliation with Applicant may have a 
e ertect on competition in the Sanford market by introducing the 
e s of another bank holding company organization into the area to 
with the two larger statewide banking organizations already in this 
£ 
T V , 
of1Ve banking institutions, operate within the Sanford-banking market and 
i 
t^ese institutions are savings banks. Of these twelve institutions, 
8ec°tidS ^ 
t h i r d largest. The two savings banks that are the first and 
^Ptov-f 
rS e st financial institutions in the market control, respectively, 
imately $29 and $26 million of deposits. 

4027 
-3-
Although Applicant could enter the market de novo or through 
aC(luisition of one of the smaller banks in the market, such a prospect would 
n°t appear to have a substantially more beneficial effect on competition 
tllan the proposal herein. Applicant's acquisition of Bank would not result 
ln Applicant gaining a dominant share of the market's banking resources, 
n°r would it appear to preclude the possibility of other holding companies 
entGring the market. The Board concludes, therefore, that competitive 
c°nsiderations are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Sa 
nk> and of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks, are regarded 
as Satisfactory. Considerations relating to the banking factors are 
l a t e n t with approval of the application. Although there is no 
evi<Unce in the record to indicate that banking needs of the residents 
Of 
Sanford banking market are not currently being met, the proposed 
filiation is likely to result in expansion of the range of services 
8er*tly offered by Bank. Affiliation with Applicant should provide 
Bank 
* greater access to the Applicant's financial and managerial resources 
Qw J 
thereby enable it to provide additional banking services to the residents 
immunity to be served are consistent with approval of the application 
t h e Sanford area. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the 
Xt i 
s the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the 
Pubii 
i c Interest and that the application should be approved. 

4028 
-4-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
ore the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
°r 
later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
U n l e s s such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
G d e r a l Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAl] 
for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
and r n > B u c h e r» a n d Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
G°Vernor Brimmer. 
Sh 

4029 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I T E M NO- 5 
10/15/73 
COMMERCE BAlv'CSIIARES, INC. 
Order Approving Application to Engage in the Underwriting of 
Credit Life and Credit Accident and Health Insurance 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
shares of a company ("Company") to be organized de novo to engage in 
underwriting, as reinsurer, of credit life and credit accident and 
^alth insurance. Such activity has been determined by the Board to 
b e closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(10)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e r s o n s to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
h a a been duly published (38 Federal Register 22515). The time for 
8 comments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, the third largest banking organization in Missouri, 
COl*trols 26 banks with aggregate deposits of $1.1 billion representing 
8,2 
Per cent of the total deposits of commercial banks in the State, 
banking data are as of December 31, 1972 and reflect holding company 
Nations and acquisitions approved through August 31, 1973.) 
Company will be formed as an Arizona insurance corporation 
W l t h ^itial capital of $150,000. As Company will be qualified to 
nd®rwrite insurance directly only in Arizona, its initial activities 

4030 
-2-
be limited to acting as reinsurer of credit life and credit accident 
and health insurance policies offered in connection with extensions of 
credit by Applicant's subsidiaries. Such insurance will be directly 
underwritten by an insurer or insurers qualified to underwrite the 
insurance in Missouri and will thereafter be "assigned or ceded" to 
Company. Credit life and disability insurance is generally made available 
ky banks and other lenders and such insurance is designed to assure 
rePayment of a loan in the event of death or disability of the borrower. 
In connection with its addition of credit life underwriting 
to the list of permissible activities for bank holding companies, the 
B°ard stated that: 
To assure that engaging in the underwriting 
of credit life and credit accident and health 
insurance can reasonably be expected to be in 
the public interest, the Board will only approve 
applications in which an applicant demonstrates 
that approval will benefit the consumer or result 
in other public benefits. Normally such a showing 
would be made by a projected reduction in rates 
or increase in policy benefits due to bank 
holding company performance of this service. 
Applicant has stated that Company and the direct insurer(s) 
which issues the credit life and credit accident and health insurance 
Off 
£e*ed by Applicant's lending subsidiaries will reduce the rate generally 
Cllar8ed by Applicant's lending subsidiaries for credit life insurance 
^ 
per cent and will reduce the rate charged for credit accident 
health insurance by 5 per cent. The Board believes that the 

-3-
4031 
Proposed rate changes provide reduced costs to customers and are pro-
competitive and in the public interest. The Board concludes that such 
benefits outweigh any possible adverse effects of approval of the 
application. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
i n the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(3) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
termination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
°r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
^sidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Pr°visions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
°r<iers issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
The transaction shall be consummated not later than three 
tn°nths after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
^tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Kansas City. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!./ effective October 15, 1973. 
i 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
tSEAU 
Secretary of the Board 
i/^V^Tf 
— 
Sl*eeha
 
t h i s a c t i o n : 
V i c e Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
GoVer„n' B u c h er and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
<nor Brimmer. 

4032 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/15/73 
WAVERLY INVESTMENT COMPANY 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Continuation of Insurance Agency Activities 
Waverly Investment Company, Waverly, Missouri, has applied for 
th* Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) 
of formation of a bank holding company through acquisition of up to 100 
per cent of the voting shares of Bank of Waverly, Waverly, Missouri 
("Bank") . 
Applicant has also applied for the Board's approval under 
§ 4<c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of 
^Sulation Y to acquire Mallen Insurance Agency, Waverly, Missouri 
^ Agency"), and thereby to engage in permissible insurance agency 
accivitieS in Waverly (population of 900). The operation by a bank 
company of a general insurance agency in a community with a 
N a t i o n not exceeding 5,000 is an activity that the Board has previously 
*et®*®lned to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)(iii)(a)) . 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in accordance 
W l t h §§ 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
has expired. The Board has considered the applications and all 
c°toments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
Act 
» and the considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant is a non-operating corporation recently organized 
purpose of acquiring shares of Bank and an existing insurance 
a£ency, 
fiank 
( d e p o s i t s 0f $3.4 million), the only banking institution 

4033 
-2-
in U a v e rly, an agricultural community located 60 miles east of Kansas City, 
is fche sixth largest of eleven banks in the Waverly banking market^ 
and Contr°ls 4 per cent of deposits in the market. (Banking data are as 
December 31, 1972, and market data are as of June 30, 1972.) Since the 
p °Posed holding company formation is essentially a restructuring of Bank's 
P* esenf ownership, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposal 
n o t eliminate any existing or potential competition, increase concen-
° n of banking resources, or have an undue adverse effect on the other 
bank8 -i 
in the relevant market. Therefore, competitive considerations are 
stent with approval of the application. 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and future prospects 
of Bank 
K are regarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval of the 
1 —tcion. The management of Applicant is essentially the same as that of 
^nk 
> and Applicant's financial condition and future prospects are dependent 
uPon p 
Profitable operations by both Bank and Agency. Applicant will incur 
acquiring Bank; however, its income from Bank and the insurance 
a£enCy 
activities should provide sufficient revenue to service the debt 
^hovit i 
impairing the financial condition of Bank. Although consummation 
of the 
transaction would have no immediate effect on the area's banking 
c°nveriie 
^ 
ence and needs, improved services may result in the future under 
m° r e flexible corporate structure of the holding company. Considerations 
^°rtion W a v e r l y banking market is approximated by the southeastern 
Ray County and the northern portion of Lafayette County. 

4034 
-3-
rfciating to the convenience and needs of the community to be served, therefore, 
a r e regarded as being consistent with approval of the application. It 
is 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction 
ould be in the public interest and that the application to acquire Bank 
should be approved. 
Agency is a general insurance agency and conducts its business 
fr 
0ln the premises of Bank in Waverly. It engages in the sale of credit 
lif p 
e» credit accident and health insurance to customers of Bank under the 
UaiIle 
Waver ly Insurance Agency and sells various other types of 
gGneral insurance under the name of Agency. As it is the only insurance 
8ency in Waverly, continued availability of these services through 
Pplicant assures the residents of the Waverly area of a convenient 
c 
ifcdi 
Sour 
C e of insurance agency services. There is no evidence in the record 
bating consummation of the proposal would result in any undue con-
t 
M 
ration of resources, unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
°und banking practices or other adverse effects on the public interest. 
On the basis of the foregoing and other facts reflected in the 
the Board has determined that the considerations affecting the 
0lnPetitive factors under § 3(c) of the Act and the balance of the public 
itit 
erest factors the Board is required to consider regarding the acquisition 
cy under § 4(c)(8) are favorable and that such applications should 
be an 
aPproved. 
Accordingly, the applications are approved for the reasons summarized 

4 0 3 5 
-3-
aoove. The acquisition of Bank and Agency shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
t h i s °rder, or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
ky the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
The 
e determination as to Applicant's insurance activities is subject to 
the 
G Board's authority to require such modification or termination of the 
activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
f inri 
s necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
Prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEAL] 
t 
for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane 
°rltrnner 
- , 
, 
. 
, 
BU},^ner> Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman 

4036 
Item No. 7 
10/15/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ELLIS BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
\ 
Ellis Banking Corporation, Bradenton, Florida, a bank holding 
COlBPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f 
r 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
Co ercial Bank of Sarasota, Sarasota, Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new 
bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
3(b) 
none has been timely received. The application has been considered 
of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
°f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and 
i n 
U g h t 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in Florida, 
^ntroicj . 
nineteen banks with aggregate deposits of $553 
million, repre-
Sentinp 9 o 
~ 
G 
per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
sit\ce Ba i, 
ank is a proposed new bank, consummation of the acquisition would 
Either on , 
eiiminate existing competition nor increase immediately the Ap-
^icant'a u 
a share of commercial bank deposits either in Florida or in the 
Satas°ta market. 
C ^SEin 1 
a r e a s o f D e c e m b e r 3 1 > 1972, adjusted to reflect bank 
^ O U O K ^0rnPany acquisitions and formations approved by the Board 
g n AugUst 2, 1973. 

4037 
-2-
The Sarasota local area (consisting of parts of Sarasota and 
^natee Counties) is the relevant market. Applicant, largest of five 
^king organizations (all holding companies), controls $171 million or 
37 -x 
per cent of total commercial deposits through four banks which 
it presently owns in that market. The second largest organization in 
thi 
market, Palmer Bank Corporation, controls four banks with $167 
^ilion in deposits, representing 36 per cent of market deposits. 
PPlicant1s formation and acquisition of Bank will improve Applicant's 
Competitive position in the market but not to the extent that its 
^°sition will be so dominant as to foreclose others from entry. In 
fact i 
» ^ view of the current commercial and residential development 
Under tT 
way in the expected service area of the proposed Bank, it appears 
that t-h 
L[»e market will continue to remain attractive for de novo entry. 
^hus > competitive considerations are consistent with approval of the 
^Plication. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
^Ppli cant and of its subsidiaries are satisfactory in light of Appli-
commitment to improve the capital position in six of its sub-
sidiarv , 
cy banks. Thus, banking factors to be considered are consistent 
Hth n approval of the application. 
Although the record indicates that the banking needs of the 
AUnity 
ate 
U n i ty are being served by existing financial institutions, there 
prcsently no banks located in the proposed service area of Bank. 
H^s j^d > 
ents of this area must now go into downtown Sarasota or further 

4038 
-3-
0ut of the immediate area to accomplish their banking needs. This factor, 
in 
addition to an estimated 100 per cent increase in the population by 
1977 illustrates the need for a convenient source of banking services. 
It i 
8 the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acqusition 
W 0 U l d b e in the public interest and that the application should be 
aPProved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
he reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
k) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
his Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) 
0l^ercial Bank of Sarasota, Sarasota, Florida, shall be opened for 
businp<IO 
^ , 
s s not later than six months after the effective date of this 
Order 
t, , 
• kach of the periods described in (b) and (c) above may be 
tended f o r good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
^lanta pursuant to delegated authority. 2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
October 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEa L> 
for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
G n> ® u c h e r> a°d Holland* Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
Pernor Brimmer. 

4039 
Item No. 8 
10/15/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST BANKSHARES CORP. OF S. C. 
Order Approving Retention of August Kohn and Company, Inc. and 
Acquisition of Stevenson, Zimmerman and Company 
First Bankshares Corp. of S. C., Columbia, South Carolina, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Ct» has applied for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ c 
4(b) (2) of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire from its banking 
ubsidiary, The First National Bank of South Carolina, Columbia, South 
ar°lina ("Bank"), all of the voting shares of August Kohn and Company, 
Iftc 
•> Columbia, South Carolina ("Kohn"), and to acquire all of the voting 
sharec! 
c Stevenson, Zimmerman and Company, Charleston, South Carolina 
("St, 
-evenson"), companies that engage in the activity of general mortgage 
U nS and act as agent8 in the sale of credit life insurance and acci-
and health insurance directly related to the extension of credit. 
SuCh 
activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related 
° the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), (3), (9)(ii)). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
PfctsonQ to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
has been duly published (38 Federal Register 21824 and 21825). The time 
filing comments and views has expired, and none has been timely 
t e c«iv e d. 

4040 
-2-
Bank is Applicant's sole banking subsidiary and the third 
largest banking organization in South Carolina with deposits of $314 
millin 
AOn, representing approximately 10 per cent of the commercial bank 
dePosits in the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972.) 
Applicant proposes that Kohn, with offices in Columbia, Charleston 
Spartanburg, would continue to engage in the general mortgage loan 
slness by (i) originating residential and commercial loans for sale to 
estors; (it) servicing of loans sold to investors; (iii) extending 
a l an<* residential construction loans for its own account and for 
the 
account of investors; (iv) extending land acquisition and development 
loans f 
r°r residential subdivisions. Kohn solicits loans from the con-
ttaQj. s and real estate developers rather than from the general public. 
°riginations are confined primarily to FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed 
°n 1-4 family residences. 
Applicant was established in January, 1969, for the purpose of 
ng Bank. In acquiring Bank, Applicant indirectly acquired Kohn, 
as been a subsidiary of Bank since 1965. Applicant i3 applying for 
P^niajion t o accjuira Kohn froc. Applicant's subsidiary Dank as an 
*Gc*Ptabi 
X e - 4(c)(3) activity and to operate Kohn as a direct subsidiary 
^lier th a n a s a subsidiary of Bank. The Board r.ust find that the proposed 
tan8acti 
^ 
of shares would not reoult in an undue concentration of resources, 
or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking 
9ctices. 

4041 
-3-
Kohn, with a servicing portfolio of $109 million, operates in 
the Columbia, Spartanburg, and Charleston SMSA's (Standard Metropolitan 
St 
Mistical Areas). Bank also operates in these three markets. However, 
the 
combined activities of Kohn and Bank in these markets represent but a 
sinaii 
Percentage of the total volume of mortgage loans therein. In the 
U m b i a S M SA, Bank and Kohn's 1972 originations totalled $22 million or 
^ Per cent of the total market volume of $451 million in mortgage 
loans 
T 
% i-n the Spartanburg SHSA, the 1972 originations of Bank and Kohn 
90• / million or 4.8 per cent of the total originations of $140.8 
nations 
° n in this market. In the Charleston SMSA their combined 1972 origi-
were $19.9 million or about 7 per cent of the total volume of 
$285 
million in such loans. 
With regard to particular product markets, the market share of 
and Kohn's combined originations is even less. Only in the area of 
truetion loans did Bank and Kohn extend a more substantial volume of 
° r 1972. In the Charleston SMSA, for example, Bank and Kohn origi-
24 „ 
Per cent of the total volume of construction loans in 1972. However, 
A/ A^tf 
n° indi°U8h m a r ket share figures for 1965 are not as complete, there is 
^65 t^ C a t i o n that significant existing competition was eliminated in 
ptSani2
r°U8h Bank's acquisition of Kohn. The competition between the two 
^mbi t i o n s i n 1 9 65 was limited to residential mortgage loans in the 
^ t y e
a S^SA, and.the figures on their residential loan originations in 
^icate* Wtlen c°nsidered with the number of mortgage lending competitors 
8 the adverse effects on existing competition were not substantial. 

4042 
-3-
t^ere are several mitigating factors to any consideration of this level of 
c°iicentration. Most important is the fact that much of Kohn s competitive 
CaPacity has been developed since its acquisition by Bank in 1965.2/ 
^ e time of its acquisition, Kohn did not have the financial capacity 
engage actively in the area of construction loans4 In addition, 
the Market for large construction loans is broader than that of a local 
tuarkp f and strong regional competitors from outside the local market can 
and dr. 
u o compete effectively for such loans. The Board concludes that 
tei*tion of Kohn by Applicant would have only slight adverse effects on 
^Petition and would not lead to undue concentration of resources in 
^ 
rel*vant market. 
Stevenson, with total mortgage originations of $4.5 million 
in 
and a servicing portfolio of $42 million, also has its only office 
in th 
e Charleston SMSA. Stevenson Originates on^-y 
family FHA-insured 
°r V A - P 
guaranteed residential loans. Although Applicant, through Bank 
and Koh 
nnf competes with Stevenson, it does not appear that any undue con-
ration or significant anticompetitive consequences will result from 
acquisition. In the 1-4 family residential mortgage market 
(inciUfi. 
ulI1g conventional and FHA/VA), Applicant originated 3.3 per cent 
of t h e 
total, and Stevenson had 3.1 per cent of the market in 1972. Since 
th 
arket h a g n u m e r o u s competitors, including at least 18 mortgage banking 
Lions, an increase in Applicant's market share from 3.3 to 6.4 per 
not be a serious adverse competitive effect. In addition, most 
^gin3!- 
t* 0 n t o Provid:I-ng capital which allowed Kohn to increase its loan 
n s f r o m $9-2 million in 1965 to $23.4 million in 1972, Applicant 
Kohn to expand geographically from its single office in 
a to offices in Charleston and Spartanburg. 

4043 
-3-
of Stevenson's business is captive in nature, as it is derived from an 
filiated development company. Thus, there is but limited existing 
c°mpetition between Applicant and Stevenson. Since this affiliate 
relationship will be terminated upon consummation of the proposal, there 
w i U be a resulting procompetitive effect in allowing the affiliate to 
Seek mortgage loans from other sources. 
Applicant entered the Charleston market de novo in 1971 through 
If u 
°hn and has the potential to expand further in this area. Stevenson, 
°Wever, has a shortage of trained management personnel, and it is 
UnUkely that it would be able to expand or exert a more competitive 
infUience in the foreseeable future. In addition, Stevenson is losing 
LS ^filiate relationship with a construction company which is the 
Ptim ary source of its mortgage loan originations. This will further 
6SSei1 its viability as a mortgage banking firm. The Board concludes 
th 
the proposed acquisition of Stevenson would have no significant 
dverSe effects on either existing or potential competition. 
There is no evidence that the acquisition of Kohn by Bank in 
1965 h 
as led to conflict of interest or unsound banking practices. 
0,18h Appiicant's support, Kohn has increased the size of its mortgage 
Portfolio it services from $44.5 million in 1965 to over $109 million 
in 1970 
Applicant has arranged recently for a line of long term credit 
pr°vide for Kohn's expansion and increasing competitive effectiveness. 
b a l 
a n ce, the Board concludes that the slight anticompetitive effects 
loan 
to 

4 0 4 4 
-6-
Of j-i. 
retention are outweighed by the public benefits that are, and have 
beei*» derived from the operation of Kohn by a bank holding company 
^th the size and resources of Applicant. 
The proposed transfer of Kohn to Applicant should result in 
enefits to the public by increasing the resources available to Kohn and 
y Permitting Kohn to utilize debt instruments more conveniently. 
Approval of the proposed acquisition of Stevenson also will make 
aVaHahi 
0i-e to Stevenson the financial resources of Applicant, and thereby 
Stevenson with an additional source of working capital to 
increas 
its lines of credit and compete more effectively. Applicant 
Proposed to merge Stevenson into Kohn and has made a commitment to 
^ject 
v-UO million additional equity capital in the resulting company. 
Applicanr K 
nas also secured a line of long term credit to assist the 
a n y after merger. 
Management of Stevenson is thin, and Applicant is in a position 
^ Pro^H , 
the personnel with the necessary expertise to bolster Stevenson's 
n t, to make Stevenson a more aggressive competitor, and to over-
t h e loss of Stevenson's construction company affiliate. These 
Sec* capabilities and the severance of a captive relationship 
tevenson and its construction company affiliate are positive 
n terms of public needs and convenience. 

4045 
-3-
The Board's review of the record indicates the retention of 
and t 
that 
ai*d the proposed acquisition of Stevenson would produce public benefits 
W o u ld outweigh any slight adverse effects on competition. There is 
evidence in the record to indicate that the proposed retention or 
^isition would lead to an undue concentration of resources, conflicts 
of in 
erest, or unsound banking practices. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
lnteres t- * 
ractors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
fav°tabl 
Ae« Accordingly, the applications are hereby approved. This 
^ination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of 
^gulatl 
0tl Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
nation of the activities of a holding company or any of its sub-
81<Uaries a s the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Pt<>vi81o 
n s and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
iS8Ued th 
e*eunder or to prevent evasion thereof. The transactions shall 
^uanmted riot later than three months after the effective date of 

4046 
-8-
thi 
s Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to authority delegated 
^rewith. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective October 17, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
(SEAL] 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Votin r 
Sheehan 
t h i S a c t i o n : 
V i c e chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Qli<l (V, ' B u c h e r» and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
Pernor Brimmer. 

4047 
Item No. 9 
10/15/73 
October 15, 1973 
'frustccc, Kstate of Alfred X. duPont 
Florida National Bank Building 
0, Box 130 
Jacku6r\ville, II or id a 
!Ch<i Board of Governors hereby 
y<:t)r letter of 
{feptciahar IV, 1973, e*id the enclosed coVtlficaCo of tlia Trustee^1 
T-aoIution adopted mi August 2, 1273» The Soerd undcrofcaada by these 
Ccr'1-''Unlcnt:iov\n tliot the Trust: dot*, a nr.t: contoa*; taa determination of 
^ontrol t'rucj/or controlling influence sol: forth li« cho tfoard'o July 
Notice, of: X-relisrinary Determination ana, accordingly t the Trust 
r^opofren to terminate the control roletio.nnhiv-y by disposing of the 
irU2t'n stock holding in Florida Motional Banks of Florida* Inc., arid 
^lUtfafce i-h-i; ft bo j'.ivcn until lhi'csv.box 31, 1974, to concludo the 
Qivccti.ture of control and/or controlling influence, 
KncXootid La a copy of an Order adopted by the Board this 
y, 
Please note that the Order dirccto the mibiaission to the 
within sixty day a frow this date of a npcseific plan for the 
^^inatioa of control and/or controlling -influence in conformity 
tl1 the requirements of the Act and Regulation Y. 
The r.oard'o General Ceunnel m d members of the Board1 n Legal 
o/*^ ^ t o u t e d by hi;n arc available to dineur.t; with' repreDontativeo 
^ 
Trufit any questionu you liiay h&vcw 
V 
.• 
Very truly yourn, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Che titer B, l'eldbcsrg 
Socrotary of, the Board 

4048 
Item No. 10 
10/15/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE ALFRED I. DUPONT TESTAMENTARY TRUST 
Determination, and Order for Divestiture, of Control 
of Florida National Banks of Florida, Inc. 
The Board of Governors havirlg by Notice dated July 5, 1973, 
itif 
ormed the Trustees of the Alfred I. diiPont Testamentary Trust (the 
"Tr ii 
Ust") that the Board was not satisfied with the effectiveness of the 
Xfust1Q action directed toward divestiture of control of the banks in 
Florida National Banks of Florida holding company system and that 
B°ard had made a preliminary determination pursuant to Regulation Y 
(12 c p p 
225.2(c)) that the Trust has continued to exercise control 
aHd/0r 
a controlling influence over the management or policies of Florida 
**aUon i" 
lal Banks of Florida ("Florida National") and/or its subsidiary banks 
Vitfcin ft, 
cne meaning of Section 2 of the Eank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
mended; and the Trust having, by resolution adopted in response to the 
itc s Notice, indicated to the Board the Trust's x^illingness to terminate 
c°ntrol relationship by divesting itself of the Trust's holdings of 
Mi in 
° n Three Hundred Thirty Thousand, Six Hundred Thirty Eight (2,330,638) 
Shares 
f 
O I capital stock in Florida National and having, by letter dated 
SePtemb e r 17, 1973, requested until December 31, 1974, to negotiate and 
cne sale and disposition of this block of stock; and 
The Trust, not having contested the Board's determination of a 
C°ntr°l r i 
elationship, and not having requested a hearing on the determination 
Of 
r°l, as provided in Regulation Y (12 C.F.R. 225.2(c)), 

-2-
4049 
NOW THEREFORE THE BOARD FINALLY DETERMINES on the basis of the 
vidence before the Board as summarized in its Notice dated July 5, 1973, 
and 
e Presumption of control set forth in section 225.2(b)(2) of Regula-
tion Y f-u 
v 
rnat the Trust continues to exercise control and/or a controlling 
n f l u e n c e °ver Florida National and/or its subsidiary banks within the 
^anirio 
® o f Regulation Y and the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
and th 
at the Trust remains a bank holding company within the meaning of 
ection 2(a)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended 12 U.S.C. 
l84l(*)(2). 
THE BOARD NOW HEREBY ORDERS the Trust to terminate its control 
and/0r 
controlling influence over Florida National and/or its subsidiary 
The Trust having informed the Board of its willingness to terminate 
the 
c°ntrol relationship by divestiture of its capital stock holdings in 
a National, and having requested to be given until December 31, 1974, 
to d^ 
S e of said stock holdings, and to cease to be a bank holding company9 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Trust divest itself of said stock 
^ S s 
q 
so as to terminate said control relationships as required by the 
n kHo l d l„ „ 
A n8 Company Act and Regulation Y as early as possible, but in no 
lafc 
r than December 31, 1974; and, 
!T IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Trust submit to the Board within 
days of this Order a specific plan for the divestiture of the stock, 
^ 
a n shall contain explicit provisions to assure that the Trust's dis-
1 the stock will terminate control and/or controlling influence by 
U S t O V e r Florida National and/or any bank. The plan will be reviewed 

4050 
-3-
y the Board for effectiveness in assuring termination of control and con-
°rinity in a n respects to the requirements of the Bank Holding Company Act 
and Regulation Y and the Trust will be promptly advised. After approval of 
the 
P*an, the Trust shall report in writing to the Board every thirty days 
on 
e Progress in implementing the plan; and 
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that jurisdiction over the divestiture program 
shaH rp • 
remain with the Board until such time as the Board is satisfied that 
s c has fully complied with the requirements of this Order and the pro-
Viai0n 
t h e Bank Holding Company Act and Regulation Y; and the Board shall 
take S U c h turther action from time to time as may be necessary to assure 
C°mPlian 
with the terms of this Order. 
°r<ler 
JT IS FURTHER ORDERED that no request for reconsideration of this 
W U l b e considered unless filed within 10 days after the date hereof 
n°r 
it h 
e granted unless the request presents relevant material facts 
vfcich, f o r good cause shown, were not previously presented to the Board or 
*UeSs i t 
otherwise appears to the Board that reconsideration would be 
app*>priate. 
By order of the Board of Governors -effective October 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
[gj^ 
Secretary of the Board 
j. VQ £ 
, 
titniUer^n^for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
eehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
Item No. 11 
10/15/73 
For • 
r immediate release 
October 16, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
t0day that it has ordered the Alfred I. duPont Trust to terminate its 
n t r o 1 
controlling influence over the management or policies of Florida 
°nal Banks of Florida, a bank holding company based in Jacksonville. 
The Trust was ordered to divest its holdings of Florida National 
stock as early as possible, but in no case later than December 31, 
1974. 
Last July, the Board announced that it had made a preliminary 
minat 
Vitiation of Trust control or controlling influence over the bank 
nS company. The order issued today makes that determination final. 
The Trust, established in 1935 by the Will of the late Alfred I. 
du£ont 
» owned controlling interests in 30 Florida banks and nonbanking 
*LS In Florida. In 1966, Congress amended the Bank Holding Company 
Act to 
remove the Trust's exemption from that law and to require that the 
^Ust Hi 
lvest itself of its nonbank interests or cease to be a bank holding 
c°mPany, 
As part of the Trust's divestiture plan, the Board on August 13, 
l97°> an 
PProved formation of a bank holding company, Florida National Banks 
°f Flo 
t l d a, to acquire shares of the 30 banks controlled by the duPont Trust 
Tr i 
st s plan of divestiture was to reduce its interest in the holding 
C0Tnp*ny to " 
t o a point where it no longer exercised control over the management 
PoUcip 
G s of the holding company and its subsidiary banks. 

4 0 5 2 
- 2 -
On June 25, 1971, the Trust, through an underwriting, sold more 
three million shares of Florida National stock to the public. It 
°ntinued to hold more than two million shares or approximately 24.9 per 
c^t nf 
t the holding company stock. 
In response to the preliminary determination issued by the Board 
July> the Trust expressed a willingness to terminate its control relation-
Ship by divesting itself of its remaining 2,330,630 shares of capital stock 
in Plorida National. 
A copy of the Board's order in this matter is attached. 
- 0 -
