MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 13, 1973 

351 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 13, 1973. The Board met in the 
B°ard Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Director for Management, Office 
of Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr, O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Tuttle, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
m Q n of The Alabama Financial Group, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, to 

3564 
9/13/73 
-2-
acquire Southern States Life Insurance Company, also of Birmingham, 
and thereby to engage de novo in the underwriting of credit life 
and credit accident and health insurance directly related to exten-
sions of credit by the applicant's subsidiaries. The Board authorized 
lssuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
Itgmjjo. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United 
-Lssouri Bancshares, Inc. , Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares 
Hickman Mills Bank & Trust Company, also of Kansas City, and 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation of the 
Cotmiiittee o n Financial Statistics in a memorandum of September 7, 1973, 
hat two reports by banks on activities of their foreign branches be 
Gliminated. Attached under Item No. 3 is a copy of the letter sent 
t o Federal Reserve Banks in this connection, along with a suggested 
^raft letter to be sent to respondents. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
NOW accounts. The Congress had recently enacted legislation 
LQa j- 
, 
Permitted, only in Massachusetts and New Hampshire, the use of 
e8otiable orders of withdrawal from interest-bearing deposits at 
fin 
ancial institutions (NOW accounts), under regulations to be issued 
y the Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the 

9/13/73 
-3-
^ederal Home Loan Bank Board. The Board had discussed related issues 
0 n September 7, 10, and 11, 1973. Staff memoranda of September 10, 11, 
and 13 summarized areas of agreement, policy options, and possible 
restrictions on NOW accounts, on the basis of discussions among Board 
members and staff and consultations with the other two regulatory 
agencies. The Legal Division submitted a draft statement of proposed 
Policies with a memorandum of September 13, the thought being that 
Proposals for alternative regulatory approaches might be published 
comment without developing specific regulatory language until 
later. 
Discussion at today's meeting focused principally on reserve 
requirements that might be imposed on NOW accounts, the possible use 
Federal Reserve clearing facilities by nonmember institutions that 
°ffered such accounts, ceiling rates of interest that might be permitted 
t o be paid on NOW accounts, and possible restraints that might be 
Placed on activity in the accounts. At the conclusion of the discus-
sion, it was understood that the proposed statement would be revised 
to deflect the views expressed and would be considered further at 
tomorrow's meeting. 
Old Kent Financial Corporation. In a memorandum of July 30, 
J> the Division of Research and Statistics recommended approval 
0 f the application of Old Kent Financial Corporation, Grand Rapids, 
^-chigan, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to The Peoples 

315 6 6 
9/13/73 
-4-
State Bank of Holland, Holland, Michigan. The Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, in a memorandum of August 31, 1973, recommended denial, 
a s had the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
After discussion at today's meeting, the application was 
-SE2roved} Governors Brimmer and Holland dissenting on competitive 
grounds. In related actions, the Board approved, Governors Brimmer and 
Holland dissenting, the application of PSB Bank, Holland, Michigan, to 
c°nsolidate with The Peoples State Bank of Holland, and the applica-
tion of PSB Bank for membership in the Federal Reserve System. It was 
Understood that documents to implement these decisions would be drafted 
the Board's consideration, and that a dissenting statement also 
v°uld be prepared. 
Michigan National Corporation 
The Board had received 
aPplications from Michigan National Corporation, Bloomfield Hills, 
chigan, to acquire shares of the following Michigan banks: First 
^ational Bank of East Lansing, East Lansing; Central Bank, National 
Asaociation, Grand Rapids; Valley National Bank of Saginaw, Saginaw; 
and First National Bank of Wyoming, Wyoming. In a memorandum of 
SePtember 10, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and 
KL 
e division of Research and Statistics recommended denial of the 
aPplications with respect to the banks in East Lansing, Grand Rapids, 
Saginaw, and approval of the application with respect to the 
%oming bank. The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had made similar 
c°mmendations. Additional background material for today's meeting 

3567 
9/13/73 
-5-
included a memorandum of September 12, 1973, from the Legal Division 
regarding interests in the four banks to be acquired held by the 
employee profit sharing trust of Michigan National Bank, the lead 
bank of the applicant. 
After discussion, the applications for acquisition of shares 
the East Lansing, Grand Rapids, and Saginaw banks were approved, 
Governors Brimmer and Holland dissenting on competitive grounds, and 
tlle application for acquisition of shares of the Wyoming bank was 
unanimously. It was understood that documents to implement 
^hese decisions would be drafted for the Board's consideration, and 
fchat dissenting statements would also be prepared. 
Florida Bancorp. In a memorandum of September 4, 1973, the 
division of Supervision and Regulation and the Division of Research 
a n d Statistics recommended approval of the application of Florida 
B a n c o rP> Inc., Pompano Beach, Florida, to acquire shares of Lighthouse 
p . 
°lnt Bank, Lighthouse Point, Florida. The Federal Reserve Bank of 
At* i 
anta had recommended denial. 
After discussion, the application was approved, Governors 
^tchell and Brimmer dissenting on competitive grounds. It was under-
stood that documents to implement this decision would be drafted for 
th 
e Board's consideration, and that a dissenting statement also would 
b e Prepared. 

3568 
9/13/73 
-6-
Hamilton Bancshares. In a memorandum of August 29, 1973, the 
division of Supervision and Regulation and the Division of Research 
and Statistics recommended denial of the application of Hamilton 
Bancshares, Inc., Chattanooga, Tennessee, to acquire shares of The 
Hamilton National Bank of Knoxville, Knoxville, Tennessee. 
Supplemental 
lnformation was provided in memoranda of September 7 from the Division 
o f Supervision and Regulation and September 10 from Mr. Leavitt. 
After discussion, the application was denied, Chairman Burns 
abstaining. It w a s understood that an order to implement this deci-
sion would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Securities credit inquiry. The National Association of 
Securities Dealers had requested the Board's opinion regarding the 
Permissibility under Regulations T and U, relating to credit for 
securities transactions, of a plan proposed by Wellington Management 
Goinpany. The Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed 
related issues in a memorandum of August 6, 1973. A draft letter 
W a s attached that would implement the Division's recommendation that 
tilG Proposal be determined to be impermissible. Such a determination 
v°uld be consistent with a 1965 interpretation by the Board covering 
a • 
similar proposal. 
After discussion, the letter was unanimously approved, subject 
clearance with Governors Mitchell and Sheehan of revisions to meet 

35C9 
9/13/73 
-7-
Points they had raised. A copy of the letter in the form sub-
sequently transmitted is attached as Item No. 4. 
Mr. Metzger, Assistant to the Executive Director, joined the 
meeting at this point, and a number of other staff members withdrew. 
Director appointments. At the meeting on September 6, 1973, 
discussion of director appointments included questions raised regarding 
fche present policy with respect to tenure of service by Federal 
Reserve Bank Chairmen. Under that policy, service by a Class C 
Erector is limited to two full three-year terms, except that if at 
some point during his second term a Class C director is designated 
a s Chairman of the Reserve Bank, he may be reappointed to a third 
term i n order that he will serve at least one full term as Chairman. 
l n a memorandum of September 12, 1973, Governor Holland described 
Various alternatives under that policy with respect to the reappoint-
ment of Chairman Wilson of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
After discussion, Mr. 0. Meredith Wilson was reappointed as a 
class c director of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for a 
tetm of three years beginning January 1, 1974, and was redesignated 
a s ^airman and Federal Reserve Agent at the Bank for the year 19 74, 
W l th compensation fixed at an amount equal to the fees that would 
be 
Payable to any other director of the same Bank for equivalent 
t i m e and attendance to official business. Mr. Joseph F. Alibrandi 
W a s Reappointed as Deputy Chairman of the San Francisco Reserve Bank 

3570 
9/13/73 
-8-
for the year 1974. It was understood that Governor Holland would 
explore the possible need for a revision of the present rotation 
Policy with respect to Federal Reserve Bank Chairmen and submit 
recommendations to the Board at a later date. 
Governor Daane described the tenor of discussions at recent 
meetings he had attended with foreign central bankers. 
Chairman Burns, in the light of expected absences of members 
the Board, commented on the prospect for early consideration of 
Federal Reserve discount rates, advice of changes in which had been 
received from Reserve Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3571 
FEDEPAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
9/13/73 
THE ALABAMA FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. 
°rder Approving Acquisition of Southern States Life Insurance Company 
The Alabama Financial Group, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPplied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
5 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
shares of Southern States Life Insurance Company, Birmingham, Alabama 
( Company"), a company that will engage de novo in the activity of under-
Siting credit life and credit accident and health insurance directly 
r°lated to extensions of credit by Applicant's subsidiaries. Such 
activity has been determined by the Board to be closely related to the 
bus*ness of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(10)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
b e e n duly published (138 Federal Register 14793). The time for filing 
C0Tninetlts and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, the fourth largest bank holding company in the State, 
°ntrols seven banks with aggregate deposits approximating $664 million 
representing 9.7 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in 
Company will engage da novo in the activity of acting as under-
wit-
for credit life and credit accident and health insurance directly 
elateci to extensions of credit by the bank holding company system. 
data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect holding 
ny formations and acquisitions approved through July 20, 1973. 

3572 
- 2 -
Credit life and credit accident and health (disability) insurance 
j 
s generally made available by banks and other lenders and such insurance 
designed to assure repayment of a loan in the event of death or dis-
abillty of the borrower. In connection with its addition of credit life 
u^erwriting to the list of permissible activities for bank holding companies» 
the Board stated that: 
To assure that engaging in the underwriting 
of credit life and credit accident and health 
insurance can reasonably be expected to be in 
the public interest, the Board will only approve 
applications in which an applicant demonstrates 
that approval will benefit the consumer or result 
in other public benefits. Normally such a show-
ing would be made by a projected reduction in 
rates or increase in policy benefits due to bank 
holding company performance of this service." 
of 
Applicant has stated that within ninety days after approval 
th 
* 
le proposed transaction, there will be a 5 per cent reduction from the 
emiums presently being charged, for all credit accident and health 
n S U r a n c e written by Company; and there will be a 15 per cent reduction 
from fv» 
premiums presently being charged, for all credit life insurance 
e n by Company. It appears that the proposed rates are below those 
nerally prevailing in the areas involved. The Board believes that the 
cost of such insurance coverage is pro-competitive and in the 
PubXlc interest, and accordingly, the Board concludes that considerations 
l a ting to the public benefits factors are consistent with approval of 
the* 
aPPlication. 

- 3 -
3573 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public in-
vest factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This deter-
mination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification or 
^initiation of the activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries 
as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and 
Eposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, 
°r to prevent evasion thereof; it is subject to the further condition 
that the proposed activities must be commenced within no less than three 
after the effective date hereof unless such period is extended 
f°r good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 13, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
V ° t h i s 
a cTionT" Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
1ItVmer, Sheehan, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

. 3574 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m No- 2 
9/13/73 
UNITED MISSOURI BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a bank 
folding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
a£Pl:.ed for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
8s-(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more (plus directors' qualifying 
shares) Qf the voting shares of Hickman Mills Bank & Trust Co., Kansas 
City, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P r S o n s 
t o submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) o f 
°t the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a ^ th 
G Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
ht °f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C, 1842(c)), 
Applicant, the fifth largest bank holding company and the fifth 
8eQt banking organization in Missouri, controls twelve banks with 
gate deposits of $654.7 million representing approximately 5 per cent 
t h e total commercial bank deposits in the State. (Banking data are as 
De 
cember 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and 
^xons approved by the Board through July 31, 1973.) Applicant's lead 
bank IT 
» ntted Missouri Bank of Kansas City, N.A. ("United Missouri Bank") 
^59,2 roillion in deposits), located in downtown Kansas City, is the 
9*cond i 
Wgest bank operating in the Kansas City market (approximated by 
the old tf 
Kansas City SMSA less the section of Cass County south of 
U 
onville). 
in addition to United Missouri Bank, applicant has two 
^/^Xhe—"—-
Glay» J 
K a n s a s City Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area includes Cass, 
8 o n a n d platte Counties in Missouri, - and Johnson and Wyandotte 
Aes in Kansas. 

O f-' r— 
o o 
/5 
l 8 
- 2 -
oth 
2 / 
subsidiaries in the Kansas City market;"" aggregate deposits of the 
t h t G G subsidiaries ($500*9 million) represent 12.03 per cent of the total 
dePosits in the Kansas City market. Approval of the acquisition of Bank 
W°Uld iucrease Applicant's share only slightly to 12.08 per cent of the 
t 0 t a l market deposits. 
Bank ($20.4 million in deposits), located in the southern portion 
Kan 
sas City, approximately nineteen miles south oft .Applicant's lead 
» is one of the smaller banks operating in the Kansas City market with 
Per cent of total deposits in the market. There is some present 
petition between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries since they are 
located in 
tne same market. However, the amount of such competition would 
t o be minimized due to the fact that Applicant and Bank are affili-
rough common stock ownership, and Bank has enjoyed a close working 
onship with Applicant and United Missouri Bank. On the basis of the 
f*ct8 o f record, notably the existence of numerous banking alternatives 
e in the Kansas City market, Bank's small market share, the common 
P and relationship between Applicant's lead bank and Bank, and the 
f*Ct that n, 
, 
tne close association would be likely to continue regardless of 
the W d ' 
s action on the present application, the Board concludes that 
ation of the proposal would not eliminate any significant existing 
n n°r foreclose significant potential competition. 
S ^ V ^ r - - — — — 
t0 0l:ganiditi0n, ^PPlicant h a s applied to the Comptroller of the Currency 
o f *2e a national bank in Blue Springs, Missouri (located nine miles 
Pt°val „ OWlltown Kansas City). The Comptroller announced preliminary ap-
June 14, 1973. 

3576 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant, Applicant's present subsidiaries and Bank are satisfactory and 
consistent with approval of the application. Considerations relating to 
e convenience and needs of the communities to be served are regarded as 
consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the trans-
ition would be in the public interest and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
r e a 8 o n s summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
8 Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
thia 
8 0rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 13, 1973, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
^^VotTn"—f— 
Brimm 
t h l S a c t i o n : Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane 
e r» Sheehan and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

3577 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
DF T H E 
Item No. 3 
9/13/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 2C551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORPEBPDNUENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
September 14, 1973 
The Board of Governors has acted to eliminate the following 
Sports filed by foreign, branches of member banks: 
Monthly Report of U.S. Dollar ("Euro-dollar") 
Deposits and Direct Borrowings (*YR. 501) 
Annual Supplement to Monthly Report on Foreign 
Branch Assets and Liabilities (F,R. 503) 
This action ir- effective immediately and respondents should be informed 
l-jat reports scheduled for September 30 need not be filed. A suggested 
letter to respondents is enclosed for your possible use in this 
£Qgard, As noted in the enclosed letter, the basic Monthly Report on 
foreign Branch Assets and Liabilities 
502) Is to be continued. 
The Board took this action in the light of recommendations 
ttade by the System Task Force on Alleviation of Bank Reporting Burden. 
Yours sincerely, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
7 0 THJS PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3578 
kgtter to Commercial Banks from Presidents of Federal Reserve Banks 
Hear Sir: 
As part of its program of reviewing its requirements for 
financial statistics, the Federal Reserve System is, effective 
ifliracdlately, eliminating the following reports filed by foreign 
branches of member banks: 
Monthly Report of U.S. Dollar ("Euro-dollar") 
Deposits and Direct Borrowings (F.R* 503) 
Annual Supplement to Monthly Report on Foreign 
Branch Assets and Liabilities (F.R. 503) 
The two reports that are being eliminated — together with 
t h G Monthly Report on Foreign Branch Assets and Liabilities (F.R. 502), 
^hich is continued ~~ were instituted in 1969 following very sub-
st3ntial growth In the assets and in the Euro-dollar activity of the 
°*eign brancheso The data on maturity of Euro-dollar deposits, 
^Uch have been published in. the Federal Reserve Bulletin, have 
Provided valuable information on foreign branch practices regarding 
Euro-dollar business during the past four years. However, 
after reviewing exparier.ee with this report, the Federal Reserve 
System has determined that a regular monthly statistical report on 
Maturity of Euro-dollar deposits is no longer necessary, and i:i the 
Merest of reducing the reporting burden on banks, the System is 
j 
r°pping the reporting requirement for F.R. 501 with reports filed 
a ® 
August 31, 1973. 

3573 
- 2 -
The Annual Supplement to the Monthly Report on Foreign 
Branch Assets and Liabilities (F,R, 503) is filed as of September 30 
each year by those foreign branches that do not have assets large 
enough to require that they report monthly on F.R, 502. The foreign 
branches filing the Annual Supplement account for a very small, and . 
declining, share of the total assets of all foreign branches, and 
Federal Preserve System has determined that the report is no 
required. Moreover, the United States Treasury, which has 
responsibility for administration of the Interest Equalisation Tax, 
hag stated that .it has no objection to elimination of the Annual 
aUt>Plament. This reporting requirement is dropped immediately, and 
n° report should be filed for September 30, 1973. 
Sincerely yours, 

3580 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
of coC: •. 
OF 
T H E 
Item fta. 4 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
9/13/7,3 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 28, 1973 
Mr. Frank J. Wilson 
Senior Vice President 
National Association of 
Securities Dealers, Inc. 
1735 K Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20006 
Dear Mr. Wilson: 
Your letter of May 24, 1973, asks for a formal opinion of 
^ e Board of Governors on the applicability of its Regulations T and 
U (12 C.F.R. 220 and 221) to a proposal by Wellington Management 
Company (Wellington) for informing shareholders of investment companies 
It manages that their shares are acceptable collateral for extensions 
°f credit by United Missouri Bank of Kansas City, N.A. (Bank). For 
the reasons discussed below and in its interpretation published in 
1965 Federal Reserve Bulletin, page 413 (12 C.F.R. 221.115), the Board 
believes that if the proposal were put into effect, credit would be 
e*tended in violation of the margin and other requirements of the regu-
lations. 
At the same time, the Board can well understand your feeling 
and that of Wellington — that shareholders in mutual funds should 
v not be led to redeem their shares because of a misapprehension about 
, their right to pledge the shares against a bank loan. As pointed out 
below the Board believes this undesirable result can be prevented 
Without interfering with the objectives of the regulations. 
You urge as reasons for approving Wellington's proposal that 
^tual fund shareholders are frequently unsophisticated and do not 
Realize that they can obtain bank loans against their shares even 
t h o u g h share certificates are not issued to them. Surveys have shown, 
state, that fund shareholders may redeem their shares when they 
need cash for purposes other than purchasing or carrying securities, 
lnstead of borrowing against them, simply because they do not realize 
that such borrowing is feasible. You feel this is disadvantageous to 

3581 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Mr. Frank J. Wilson 
- 2 -
I i 
the shareholders, since mutual fund shares are normally purchased 
j as a long-term investment and the redeeming shareholder forfeits 
any advantages he may have gained by holding the shares up to the 
time of redemption. 
_ 
Your letter points out, quite rightly, that neither sec-
j 
tiori 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 nor Regulation T would 
•i Prevent a broker/dealer from extending or arranging for credit whose 
purpose is not to purchase or carry securities. It would only be 
feasible, however, to carry out Wellington's proposal, if Bank were 
to obtain the required statement as to the purpose of the loan on 
Form F.R. U-l by mail, from the borrower. Under a scheme where pur-
Pose statements were accepted wholesale, by mail, it would not be 
Possible to comply with the requirements of Regulation U for adequate 
"Verification of the statement, and such a scheme would tend to 
facilitate the making of purpose loans on an ostensibly non-purpose 
ba sis. Were such a practice to become widespread it could seriously 
undermine the effectiveness of the Board's margin regulations. 
In its 1965 interpretation, the Board held that when a bank 
routinely accepts statements by mail as to the purpose of stock-secured 
loans, this 
" . . . would tend to create a new class 
of stock-secured loan, to be made in 
relatively small amount for each loan, 
and potentially made in large numbers, 
it 
• 
• 
• 
without the safeguards of face-to-face confrontation with the lending 
°fficer which normally assists in determining the true purpose of the 
loan. As a result, the bank would be unable to comply with the strin-
gent requirements of Regulation U that it ascertain the purpose of 
v each stock-secured loan it makes. Inevitably, the result would tend 
1 
to be a lower level of compliance with the regulation's margin require-
ments. Also, where a purchaser is systematically buying more stock 
than he could otherwise afford and borrowing against the stock to meet 
• current expenses, or where loan disbursements are geared to payments 
Under a stock purchase plan, the credit must be regarded as "purpose" 
credit. Such a situation could easily arise under Wellington's pro-
posal and would be almost impossible to detect or prevent. 
Nothing in Regulation T, on the other hand, would prevent 
Wellington from advising shareholders in its funds that it is possible 
f°r them to pledge their shares with a bank against a loan for some 
Purpose other than to purchase or carry ("non-purpose" loan), despite 
the fact that certificates have not been issued to them. Indeed, the 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
. 
Mr. Frank J. Wilson 
- 3 - 
| 
I 
i 
regulation would permit Wellington to advise its shareholders that if 
they can visit Bank in person they may borrow there so long as the 
loan is "non-purpose". Regulation U, of course, permits a bank to 
lend against mutual fund shares on the appropriate basis,, after making 
the inquiries required by the regulation. 
Wellington could also advise shareholders that it is possible 
for their own individual banks to obtain a security interest in shares 
of its fund by contacting the transfer agent. By procedures of this 
kind, it would appear that unnecessary redemptions due to misapprehension 
on the part of shareholders could effectively be avoided. 
• Very truly ^yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
