MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 3, 19 73 

_1480 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, May 3, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office 
of Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr, O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the 
General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Garwood, Adviser, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and Minneapolis on April 26, 
1973, of the rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules 

1181 
5/3/73 
-2-
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bank of 
America, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Wobaco Holding 
Company S.A., Luxembourg, in exchange for shares of World Banking 
Corporation Limited, Nassau, Bahamas. A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its denial, 
on April 19, 1973, of the application of Security National Corporation, 
Sioux City, Iowa, to acquire shares of Siouxland Credit Corp., also of 
Sioux City. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized issuance of orders reflecting its approval, 
on April 12, 1973, of (1) the application of First City Bancorporation 
of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of the successor by 
merger to Corpus Christi Bank and Trust, Corpus Christi, Texas; and (2) 
the application of New Corpus Christi Bank and Trust to acquire the 
assets and assume the liabilities of Corpus Christi Bank and Trust. 
Copi es of the orders are attached under Item No. 3, along with a dis-
senting statement by Governor Robertson. In a related action on 
April 12, 1973, the Board approved the application of New Corpus Christi 
Bank and Trust for membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 

1181 
5/3/73 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved the application of New England 
Merchants Company, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to The Barnstable County National Bank in 
Hyannis, Hyannis, Massachusetts, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. The 
Board also unanimously approved a letter to counsel for Merchants Bank 
and Trust Company of Cape Cod, Hyannis, Massachusetts, regarding the 
latter!s request for a hearing regarding the application of New England 
Merchants Company. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Chase 
Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Chase 
Manhattan Bank of Eastern New York (National Association), Albany, 
New York, a proposed new bank, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Chase 
Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Chase 
Manhattan Bank of Western New York (National Association), Buffalo, 
New York, successor by merger to Lincoln National Bank, also of Buffalo. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A 
copy is attached as Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Union Commerce 
Corporation, Washington, D. C., to acquire shares of The Southern Ohio 
Bank, Cincinnati, Ohio, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 9. 

_ 1483 
5/3/73 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved the applications of (1) First 
National Financial Corporation, Kalamazoo, Michigan, to acquire shares 
of the successor by merger to The Commercial Bank of Menominee, Menominee, 
Michigan; and (2) the application of Menominee State Bank to merge with 
The Commercial Bank of Menominee. The Board authorized issuance of 
orders reflecting these decisions. Copies are attached as Items 10 and 
11. In a related action, the Board unanimously approved the application 
of Menominee State Bank for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 12. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Central 
Mortgage Co., Inc., Springfield, Missouri, (1) to merge with Harmon 
Oil Co., Inc., thereby acquiring shares of Barton County State Bank, 
Lamar, Missouri; and (2) to acquire shares of Jackson County State Bank, 
Kansas City, Missouri, and Farmer's Bank of Stover, Stover, Missouri. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting these decisions. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 13. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget supporting the extension of the Economic Stabilization 
Act. A copy is attached as Item No. 14. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Truth in Lending. The Board unanimously approved a letter 
responding to the request of the Office of Management and Budget for 
the Board's views regarding H. R. 830, a bill to amend the Truth in 

5/3/73 
-5-
Lending Act to require that statements under open end credit plans be 
mailed in time to permit payment prior to the imposition of finance 
charges. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 15. In the form 
approved, the letter reflected a change agreed upon during discussion. 
Hunt Commission recommendations. The staff had prepared a 
revised draft of letter to respond to the request of the Office of 
Management and Budget for the Board's views on the Administration's 
proposals for implementing the recommendations of the President's Com-
mission on Financial Structure and Regulation (the Hunt Commission). 
The revision reflected views expressed by the Board at the meeting on 
April 30, 1973. 
Discussion at today1s meeting developed agreement on a number 
of further changes, after which the letter was unanimously approved in 
the form attached as Item No. 16. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D O F G D V E R N U R 5 
,, -
Item No. 1 
•oVciV,. 
" r T H E 
5/3/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C . 
20551 
•ilii-ii 
} ! J > J J ' -/.Is, 
A O O H E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R H E B P O N D E N T E 
• 
' ' ' •,,''.<:•*.* 
' 
T O 
T H F 
E I O A R D 
May 3, 1973 
Bank, of America 
41 Broad Street 
New York, New York 10004 
Gent: 1 enien: 
As requested in your letters of March 6 and 16., 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("B of A") 
to purchase and hold 49.9 per cent of the shares of Wobaco Holding 
Company S.A. ("VJHC"), Luxembourg, in exchange for the same percentage 
of shares of World Banking Corporation Limited ("ICBC"), Nassau, Bahamas, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
let.tor« In this connection, approval is also granted for the purchase 
and holding of shares of -vKC by your Corporation in excess of the 
applicable limitations set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) 
[ j ? U,S„G* 615 0-)] of Hie Federal Reserve Act and Sect ion 211.9(b) 
of Regulation K, 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding cr 
shares of VJHC by B of A is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That B of A shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in WHC if WUC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if WUC establishes any 
branch ot agency or takes any action re undertakes 
any operation in Luxembourg or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to B of A; 
(2) That, when requested by toe Board of Governors, 
B of A rill furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of: VJnG as it nay acquire 
f r om t: im e t o t: ime ; an I 

Bank of America 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
WHC be reported under Section 21108(d). of Regu-
lation K in the same manner as if WHC were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Acte 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of WHC. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
acquisition involve, only an exchange of shares and will not involve 
any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the 
United States0 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the 1 card 

14 87 
Item No. 2 
5/3/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SECURITY NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of Siouxland Credit Corp. 
Security National Corporation, Sioux City, Iova, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(3) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)(8)), and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of Siouxland 
Credit Corp., Sioux City, Iowa ("Siouxland"). Siouxland and 
its subsidiaries engage in sales financing, personal cash 
lending, and the sale of credit related insurance for Siouxland 
and its subsidiaries. The above described activities have been 
determined by the Board to be closely related to the business 
of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)). A bank holding company may acquire 
a company engaged in an activity determined by the Board to be 
closely related to banking provided that the proposed acquisition 
is warranted under the relevant public interest factors specified 
in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public 
interest factors, has been duly published (37 Federal Register 
23021)o 
The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 

- 2 -
_ 14 88 
Applicant controls two banks, Security National Bank of 
Sioux City, Sioux City, Iowa ("Bank"), the eighth largest bank 
in Iowa with deposits of $93.9 million, and Northwestern State 
Bank of Orange City, Orange City, Iowa ($18 million in deposits), 
representing 1.6 per cent of aggregate deposits in commercial 
banks in Iowa. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, unless 
otherwise indicated.) 
Bank holds 29.8 per cent of total deposits 
in the Sioux City banking market, thereby making it the largest, 
in terms of deposits, of the 11 banks in the market. 
Siouxland, which was established in 1947, has total assets 
°f $3.5 million and engages in the sales financing business, 
and operates solely from its office located in Sioux City. 
Siouxland purchases dealer retail installment sales contracts 
and wholesale financial paper, and its primary customers are 
retail motor vehicle dealers, farm implement dealers, appliance 
dealers, and wholesalers of goods and merchandise to retailers. 
A subsidiary of Siouxland (Siouxland Industrial Credit Corp.) 
l s an industrial loan company and extends credit for loans 
hanging from $1,000 to $5,000. Another subsidiary of Siouxland 
(Siouxland Loans, Inc.) is a small loan company and makes 
Personal loans of less than $1,000. The third subsidiary of 
Siouxland (Siouxland Insurance Agency, Inc.) acts as agent for 
several insurance companies in the sale of credit life, health 

- 3 -
_ 1189 
and accident; and vehicle casualty insurance relative to extensions 
of credit made by Siouxland and its subsidiaries. 
Such insurance 
is made available on a voluntary basis. 
In commenting on the application, the United States 
Department of Justice stated that Applicant and Siouxland appear 
to be "substantial direct competitors'' in the Sioux City area, 
and that, therefore, the proposal presented negative competitive 
factors under the public interest requirements of § 4(c)(8) of 
the Act. Applicant's response contended that Bank and Siouxland 
do not actively compete, and that the effect of the proposed 
affiliation on area competition would be procompetitive since 
Siouxland, through Bank, would have ready access to short term 
funds, thus enabling it to compete more effectively with its 
larger competitors. 
Bank and Siouxland are located in the Sioux City banking 
Market and compete with 11 banks and IS finance companies. 
Bank 
is the largest single source of automobile loans in the market, and 
as of December 31, 1972, controlled 45 per cent of all such loans 
wade by*banks in the area. Siouxland is one of nine finance 
companies competing for automobile loans in the Sioux City 
Market. 
In addition to competing for automobile loans, Bank 
ar*d Siouxland also compete to a lesser degree in the small 
consumer loan market. On the basis of the record in this case 
the Board finds that consummation of this proposal would eliminate 

- 3 -
_ 1490 
a meaningful amount of existing competition in the product line 
of automobile loans and, to a lesser extent, in the product 
line of personal loans. Moreover, consummation of the proposal 
would also reduce the number of alternative sources for consumer 
and sales finance in the Sioux City area. 
On the basis of the facts of record, the Board finds that 
consummation of the proposal would have adverse effects on 
competition in the Sioux City area. Accordingly, the Board is 
required by the provisions of the Act to deny the application 
unless there are public benefits to be derived from the affilia-
tion which would outweigh the projected decrease in area 
competition. 
The financial needs of the Sioux City area are being 
satisfactorily served at the present time, and the proposed 
affiliation would not result in any additional services. 
Whereas some efficiencies of operation to the participants could 
rosult from this proposal, they are not of such magnitude in 
thy Board's judgment that they outweigh the adverse .effect on 
competition which would result from the affiliation of the 
largest bank in Sioux City and a sales financing company of 
substantial size also located in Sioux City, both of which are 
Engaged in extensions of credit to residents of the same area. 

- 5 -
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that public interest 
benefits which the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) 
do not outweigh possible adverse effects. Accordingly, the 
acquisition is hereby denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors,i/ effective May 3, 197 3.1' 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
~ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. 
2/ Board action was taken while Governor Pobertson was a Board 
Member. 

1192 
Item No. 3 
5/3/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
I 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to Corpus Christi Bank and 
Trust, Corpus Christi, Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to 
be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisi-
tion of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
of the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisi-
I 
tion of the shares of Bank. 
1 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 13 banks with deposits of $1.7 billion, 
representing 5.6 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in Texas 
and is the second largest banking organization in the State. (All bank-
| 
• . 
ing data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through March 31, 
1973.) The acquisition of Bank, with deposits of $113 million, would 
not change Applicant's present rank among State banking organizations. 

_ 1493 
-2-
Bank ranks second among the 26 banks serving the Corpus 
Christi banking market and holds 20 per cent of area deposits. The 
largest market bank, Corpus Christi State National Bank, Corpus 
Christi, Texas ("National Bank") controls approximately 32 per 
cent of total market deposits. This proposal represents Applicant's 
initial entry into the Corpus Christi banking market and also repre-
sents the second attempt by a bank holding company to acquire one 
of the market banks. Applications have recently been approved for 
the acquisition by a bank holding company of National Bank and for 
the merger of the fourth and ninth largest area banks. Primary 
competition in the market is concentrated between National Bank 
and Bank, whereas the- 24 smaller banks compete among themselves for 
consumer loans and deposits and for the smaller commercial accounts. 
Consummation of this proposal could improve Bank's ability to com-
pete with National Bank without adversely affecting any of the 
area banks. 
Bank does not compete with any of Applicant's subsidiary 
banks, the closest of which is located in the Houston banking 
market, 185 miles from Corpus Christi. .Furthermore, it does not 
appear that significant future competition would develop between 
them in view of their wide separation, the presence of numerous 
intervening banks, and restrictions placed on branching by State 
laws. Competitive considerations are consistent with approval 
of the application. 

_ 1494 
-3-
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, 
its subsidiary banks, and Bank are considered to be satisfactory, and 
prospects for each appear favorable. Banking factors are consistent 
with approval of the application. The primary banking needs of the 
Corpus Christi area are being served at the present time. However, 
Applicant proposes to assist Bank in providing the area with addi-
tional expertise in real estate, in petroleum and gas financing 
and in trust services. The International Department of Applicant's 
lead bank will make available to Bank's customers clearance of 
foreign checks, issuance of foreign drafts, arrangements for 
letters of credit (commercial and individual), foreign currencies, and 
loans in the Euro-Dollar market. Considerations relating to the con-
venience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent 
with and lend slight support to approval of the application. It 
is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed trans-
action would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 

1495 
-3-
effective date o£ this Order or (b) later than three months after the 
effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
1/ 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL| 
JVVoting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Sheehan, 
and Bucher. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. Absent 
and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
.2/Board action was taken while Governor Robertson was a Board 
Member. 

_ 1496 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Merger of Banks 
New Corpus Christi Bank and Trust, Corpus Christi, Texas, 
a nonoperating proposed State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
System, has applied pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) 
for the Board's prior approval to acquire the assets and assume the 
liabilities of Corpus Christi Bank and Trust, Corpus Christi, Texas 
("Bank"), under the name of Bank and charter of Applicant. The bank 
into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a 
means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank by 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed acquisition 
of assets and assumption of liabilities, in form approved by the Board, 
has been published, and the Board has requested reports on competitive 
factors from the Attorney General, the Comptroller of the Currency, and 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Board has considered all 
relevant material contained in the record and all comments received in 
Ught of the factors set forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized in the Board's Order of this date, approving 
the application of First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, 
Texas, to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 

-2-
1197 
qualifying shares) of the successor by purchase of assets and assumption 
of liabilities of Corpus Christi Bank and Trust, Corpus Christi, Texas. 
The transaction shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Sheehan, 
and Bucher. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. Absent 
and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
2/ Board action was taken while Governor Robertson was a Board 
Member. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I would deny this application by the second largest banking 
organization in Texas to acquire the second largest bank in the Corpus 
Christi banking market because the adverse effect of the proposal on 
potential competition would not be justified on the basis of needed 
conveniences or public benefits. 
Applicant has embarked upon a Statewide expansion program into 
all the major banking markets throughout Texas. It has either acquired 
or announced its intentions of acquiring nine other banks which would 
increase its present control of total deposits of commercial banks in 
Texas from 5.6 per cent to 7.6 per cent. Consequently, if this appli-
cation were denied, Applicant would be a prospective entrant into the 
highly concentrated Corpus Christi banking market (the three largest 
banks hold 60 per cent of total market deposits). Applicant is 
capable of entry either through de novo means or through the acquisi-
tion of one of the smaller market banks, either of which would be 
infinitely more desirable from a competitive standpoint than the 
instant proposal. 
This Board is charged with the responsibility of keeping a 
constant vigilance and control over the Statewide expansion of banking 
organizations. The granting of permission to major Statewide holding 
companies to acquire all the larger banks in secondary banking markets 

1199 
-2-
will limit severely the expansion possibilities for the smaller regional 
holding companies presently emerging in the State* Additionally, it 
will also act as a deterrent to new bank holding company formations, 
because there will be no remaining substantially large independent 
banks to act as lead banks in the new formations. 
Careful consideration of the record in this case discloses 
no overriding benefits to customers of the Corpus Christi banking 
market which would support approval of this application notwith-
standing its adverse effects on potential competition in the relevant 
areas. The same benefits which are alleged to accrue from this acqui-
sition in the areas of international banking, and petroleum financing 
could also be realized if Applicant were granted approval to enter 
this market through les3 anticompetitive means, e.g., the acquisition 
of one of the smaller market banks. 
I believe this proposal will have a deleterious effect 
on future competition in the Corpus Christi area and on the 
structure of banking in the State of Texas. 
May 3, 1973 

„ 1500 
B O A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. A 
5/3/73 
• F' T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
O ^ O R E S S crnciAU 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
Q Q A K O 
May 3, 1973 
Board of Directors 
New Corpus Christi Bank and Trust 
Corpus Christi, Texas 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of New Corpus" Christi Bank fclfd' Trust, 
Corpus Christi, Texas, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cau:;e or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that New Corpus Christi Bank and Trust will not conduct a banking 
business with the public prior to its merger with Corpus Christi Bank 
and Trust, Corpus Christi, Texas. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

i:: 
New Corpus Christi Bank 
and Trust 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 90 days from the date of" this letter-, nMless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

J 1502 
Item No. 5 
5/3/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NEW ENGLAND MERCHANTS COMPANY, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
New England Merchants Company, Inc., Boston, Massachusettss 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting 
shares (exclusive of directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by 
merger to The Barnstable County National Bank of Hyannis, Hyannis, 
Massachusetts ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no 
significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting 
shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the 
successor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of 
the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank with deposits of approximately $844 
million, representing 7.2 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
banks in Massachusetts, and is the fifth largest banking organization in 
the State.Consummation of the proposed acquisition of Bank, with 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved through March 31, 1973. 

< 15( 
** — 
-2-
deposits of $15.3 million, would neither significantly increase Applicant's 
share of commercial bank deposits in the State nor result in a significant 
increase in the concentration of banking resources in any section of 
Massachusetts. 
Bank is the fifth largest of nine commercial banks in the 
Barnstable banking market (which is approximated by Barnstable County), 
controlling 8.6 per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in 
that market. Applicant's closest subsidiary banking office is located 
more than 60 miles from an office of Bank and it appears that there is 
no meaningful existing competition between Bank and any of Applicant's 
subsidiary banking offices. Furthermore, it appears unlikely that any 
significant competition would develop between any of Applicant's existing 
subsidiary banking offices and Bank in the future, due to the distance 
separating banking offices, Massachusetts' restrictive branching laws, 
and the presence of numerous banking alternatives in the intervening 
areas. Barnstable County does not appear to be an attractive area for 
novo, entry since it has a year-round population per commercial banking 
office of 2,357, which is significantly below the State average of 6,000. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposal would not eliminate 
any significant existing or potential competition. From June 30, 1970 
to June 30, 1972, Bank experienced the smallest growth rate of any com-
mercial bank in its area. To the extent that Applicant's operation of 
Bank can increase its competitive effectiveness, other banks which obtain 
deposits from the Barnstable banking markets may grow at a somewhat 

-3-
1504 
slower rate than otherwise might be expected. However, the Board con-
cludes that consummation of the proposal would have no significant 
adverse effects on any of these banks. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its sub-
sidary bank and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval of 
the application, particularly in view of Applicant's plans to increase 
the capital of its present subsidiary bank in the near future. Upon 
approval of the acquisition, Applicant proposes to offer through Bank 
increased and improved services such as trust services, credit cards 
and international banking services, that would provide customers in 
the area an additional competitive source of full service banking. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed transaction is in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective Hay 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
-[SEAL] 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Sheehan 
and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

1505 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
or THE 
5/3/73 
' F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
^ -'fiifff 
»" 
' t ! | i ' . 
' 
A O O K C S S 
O r r i C I A U 
C n R n C S P O N O C K C C 
T O T H E 
b U A K O 
ay 3, 1973 
request. 
I 
Edward A. Counihan, III, Esq. 
Counihan and G'Biien 
199 Alcwife Brook Parkway 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 
02138 
Dear Mr. Counihan: 
I am writing in response to your letters of April 3 and 
April )'.i> 1973 , in which you request;, on behalf of your client, 
Merchants Bank and Trust Company of Caps Cod, a public, hearing with 
respect to the application by New England Merchants Company, Inc., 
to acquire The Barnstable County National Bank of Ilyannis, Hyannis, 
Massachusetts. Under § 3(b) of the Bank .Holding Company Act, the 
Board is required to hold a hearing only where the primary super-
visory authority of the bank to be acquired has recommended disap-
proval. The Comptroller of the Currency lias not rccot-.mended dis-
approval in this case, -The Board has examined your request to 
determine whether a formal proceeding or an oral presentation 
would nonetheless be appropriate in this case. It: has concluded 
that there are no special circumstances of vour case which would 
call for the development of a record in an oral proceeding rather 
than through written submission and has therefore denied your 
The supplemental comments you submitted in opposition 
to the above-mentioned application, were made a part of the 
record of the application and were considered by the Board in 
acting upon the application. 
Enclosed for your information is a copy of the Board's 
Order and press release concerning the. subject application. 
Ve ry truly you rs, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 

_1506 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/3/73 
THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of Chase Manhattan Bank of Eastern New York (National 
Association), Albany, New York, a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in New York in 
terms of domestic deposits, controls five subsidiary banks with aggregate 
deposits of $15 billion, representing 15.5 per cent of the total domestic 
deposits in commercial banks in the State. (All banking data are as of 
June 30, 1972, and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisi-
tions approved by the Board through March 31, 1973.) Since Bank is a 
Proposed new bank, no existing competition would be eliminated nor would 
concentration be increased in any relevant area. 
Bank will be located in downtown Albany, and will represent the 
initial entry by Applicant into the Fourth Banking District in New York 
state. Applicant's existing banking subsidiaries are presently barred 
from branching into the Albany market until Statewide branching becomes 

1507 
-2-
effective on January 1, 1976, Applicant's closest banking office is 
located about 42 miles south of Albany, in Saugerties. Applicant's acqui-
sition of Bank would have a procompetitive effect by introducing a new 
competitor into the moderately concentrated Albany banking market 
(approximated by the Albany-Schenectady-Troy SMSA) where four of the 
14 banks competing in that market control over 64 per ccnt of total market 
deposits. Nine of the competing banks are subsidiaries of multibank 
holding companies, including six New York City-based institutions. 
Applicant's entry into this market should stimulate competition without 
having adverse effects on any competing bank. 
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant 
and its subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactoryc 
Since Bank will 
able to draw on Applicant's financial and managerial resources, its 
Prospects are favorable and the banking factors are consistent with 
approval. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served lend weight toward approval as Bank will provide 
an additional source of full banking services. It is the Board's judg-
ment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
Applicant owns two nonbanking subsidiaries, Berkeley Service 
Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, and Dovenmuehle, Inc., Chicago, 
Illinois, which were acquired on June 4, 1969, and on December 19, 1969, 
respectively. Berkeley Service Corporation is a service agency for the 
Shapiro Factors Division of The Chase Manhattan Bank, and Dovenmuehle, 
Inc., is a mortgage servicing company. 

1508 
-3-
In making its determination herein, the Board has relied upon 
a finding that the combination of an additional subsidiary bank with 
Applicant's existing nonbanking subsidiaries is unlikely to have an 
adverse effect upon the public interest at the present time. However, 
Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities remain subject to Board re-
view and the Board retains the authority to require Applicant to modify 
°r terminate its nonbanking activities or holdings if the Board at any 
time determines that the combination of Applicant's banking and non-
banking activities is likely to have adverse effects on the public 
interest. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) Chase 
Manhattan Bank of Eastern New York (National Association), Albany, New 
York, shall be opened for business not later than six months after the 
effective date of this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and 
( c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Sheehan 
and Bucher. Absent and not- voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

1509 
Item No. 8 
5/3/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York> New York, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors 
qualifying shares) of Chase Manhattan Bank of Western New York (National 
Association), Buffalo, New York, successor by merger to Lincoln National 
Bank, Buffalo, New York. The bank into which Bank is to be merged has 
n ° significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the 
voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares 
°f the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisi-
tion of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in New York in terms 
°f domestic deposits, controls five subsidiary banks with aggregate de-
Posits of approximately $15 billion, representing 15.5 per cent of the 
to 
al deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
Consummation of the 
y 
AlT~banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect bank holding 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 

. 1510 
—2" 
proposal would not significantly increase Applicant's share of deposits 
in the State, 
Bank ($10.2 million in deposits) is the ninth largest of ten 
banks in the Buffalo banking market, which includes Niagara and Erie 
Counties, and controls 0.4 per cent of the deposits in that market. The 
nearest office of one of Applicant's banking subsidiaries is approximately 
55 miles east of Buffalo, in Rochester, and there is no significant 
existing competition between this or any other of Applicant's subsidi-
aries. Applicant's acquisition of Bank would have a procompetitive 
effect since Bank, with Applicant's support, should compete more 
a8gressively with the four largest banks in the market, all of which are 
affiliated with bank holding companies and control in the aggregate over 
per cent of market deposits (the three largest banks control 94 per 
cent). While Applicant is a potential entrant to the market, entrance 
into the market by acquisition of this bank may be regarded as a "foothold" 
entry i n viev) of the fact that Bank's share of market deposits has 
remained virtually constant since June 30, 1968; and Bank has actually 
fallen in rank within the market from seventh to ninth. Under existing 
New York law, Applicant's subsidiaries are prohibited until January 1, 
1976 from branching into the market. Additionally, consummation of the 
Proposal would not be likely to raise barriers to entry since Bank is 
a significant factor in the market and there are other independent 
banks in the market. Consummation of the proposal will not have any 
adverse effects on existing or potential competition. 

_1511 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are satisfactory and consistent 
with approval. The banking needs of the communities involved are being 
adequately met at present. However, Applicant proposes to provide, 
through Bank, an alternative source of specialized banking needs and to 
) 
revitalize and expand the range of services offered by Bank. Therefore, 
considerations relating to convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
Applicant owns two nonbanking subsidiaries, Berkeley Service 
Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, and Dovenmuehle, Inc., Chicago, 
Illinois, which were acquired on June 4, 1969, and December 19, 1969, 
respectively. Berkeley Service Corporation is a service agency for the 
Shapiro Factors Division of The Chase Manhattan Bank, and Dovenmuehle, 
I110., is a mortgage servicing company. 
In making its determination herein, the Board has relied upon 
a finding that the combination of an additional subsidiary bank with 
Applicant's existing nonbanking subsidiaries is unlikely to have an 
adverse effect upon the public interest at the present time. However, 
Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities remain subject to Board 
review and the Board retains the authority to require Applicant to 
modify ov terminate its nonbanking activities or holdings if the Board 

15l£ 
(j4b 
at any time determines that the combination of Applicant's banking and 
nonbanking activities is likely to have adverse effects on the public 
interest. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
o r by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
£/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Sheehan 
and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

Item No. 9 
5/3/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNION COMMERCE CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Union Commerce Corporation, Washington, D. C., a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' ^ 
qualifying shares) of The Southern Ohio Bank, Cincinnati, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)), 
Applicant presently controls one subsidiary bank in Cleveland, 
2/ 
°hio, with deposits of $907 million, 
representing 3.7 per cent of 
commercial bank deposits in the State. If the proposed acquisition is 
approved, Applicant's share of deposits in the State would not Increase 
significantly. 
y Bank is presently a subsidiary of The Western and Southern Life 
Insurance Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, a bank holding company and a 
company covered in 1970" under the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding 
Company Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transaction, The 
Western and Southern Life Insurance Company will cease to be a bank 
holding companv, and the existing ties of common ownership between Bank 
and Eagle Savings Association, Cincinnati, Ohio, will be severed. 
y All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect holding com-
pany formations and acquisitions approved through March 31, 1973. 

-2-
36 
Bank (approximately $103 million in deposits), the fifth largest 
°f 42 banks operating in the Cincinnati market, controls 4 per cent of 
deposits in commercial banks in the market. Applicant's acquisition 
°f Bank would not result in Applicant's gaining a dominant share of 
Cincinnati banking resources due to Bank's limited share of market 
deposits and the existence of three other multi-bank holding companies 
operating in the area. 
Bank currently operates in the Cincinnati banking market 
in southwestern Ohio while Applicant's existing bank subsidiary operates 
in the Cleveland banking market in northeastern Ohio. The closest 
°ffices of the two banks are separated by more than 2C0 road miles. 
Accordingly, there is presently no meaningful competition between Bank 
and Applicant's existing bank subsidiary. De novo entry into the market 
does not appear to be attractive, particularly in view of the large 
number of competing banks in the market and the additional outlays of 
financial and managerial resources that would be required of Applicant 
c 
0 r the establishment of an effective branch system. It does not appear 
likely that meaningful competition between Bank and Applicant would 
develop i n th e f u t u r e # 
The Board concludes that competitive considerations 
a r e insistent with approval of the application. 
The financial ana managerial resources and future prospects 
Bank, and of Applicant and its present subsidiary bank, are regarded 
a s satisfactory. Considerations relating to the banking factors are 
c°nsistent with approval of the application. Consummation of the pro-
Posed transaction will provide an alternate source of international 

. 1515 
-3-
banking and automated retail banking services to area residents. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served are consistent with approval of the application. It is 
the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective Way 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
a n d ^ R ^ ^ 
action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Sheehan, 
ucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

1516 
Item No. 10 
5/3/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National Financial Corporation, Kalamazoo, Michigan, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all' of the voting shares of the successor 
by merger to The Commercial Bank of Menominee ("Bank"), Menominee, 
Michigan. The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares 
of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the 
successor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition 
of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls six banks with aggregate deposits of 
$361 million, representing 1.5 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 
1972 and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
through April 10, 1973.) The acquisition of Bank, with deposits of 

1517 
-2-
approximately $12 million, would increase Applicant's share of total 
deposits in Michigan by a nominal amount and would not increase con-
centration in the relevant market areas. 
Bank's sole office is in Menominee in Michigan's Upper 
1/ 
Peninsula. 
Bank is the smaller of two banks in Menominee and is 
the sixth largest of nine banks in the Menominee-Marinette market 
area with approximately 10 per cent of the area deposits. The nearest 
office of a subsidiary of Applicant to Bank is more than 100 miles away. 
Existing competition between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries 
is negligible. Furthermore it appears unlikely that any significant 
competition would develop between Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank 
in the future in view of the distances separating the banking offices 
and other facts of record. Also, banking prospects in Bank's market 
area are not such that there is any likelihood that Applicant would 
enter the market with a de novo bank. The Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposal would not eliminate any meaningful existing 
or potential competition. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries and 
Bank are generally satisfactory. Affiliation with Applicant will 
assist Bank in resolving certain management succession problems. 
Affiliation with Applicant will also assist Bank in expanding the 
1/ With assistance 
from Applicant, Bank has recently sought and 
has been granted permission to establish a branch in Menominee. 

1518 
-3-
scope of its services, including agricultural loans and mortgage loans, 
assist in opening a new branch office, and provide expanded banking 
hours. Thus considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the communities involved and the banking factors are consistent with 
and lend support to approval of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL! 
2./ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, 
Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
and Brimmer. 

Item No. 11 
5/3/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MENOMINEE STATE BANK 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
Menominee State Bank, Menominee, Michigan, a nonoperating 
proposed State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied 
for the Board's approval pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C 
1828(c)) of the merger of that bank with The Commercial Bank of 
Menominee, Menominee, Michigan, under the charter of Applicant and 
the name of The Commercial Bank of Menominee and to operate a branch 
at the location of an approved, but as yet unopened, branch office 
of The Commercial Bank of Menominee. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in 
form approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has 
requested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, 
the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The Board has considered the application in light 
of factors set forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized in the Board's Order of this date relat-
ing to the application of First National Financial Corporation, 
Kalamazoo, Michigan, to acquire all of the voting shares of the 
successor by merger to The Commercial Bank of Menominee, Menominee, 
Michigan, provided that said transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause 

-2-
1520 
by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, 
Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
and Brimmer. 

1521 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 12 
5/3/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 3, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Menominee State Bank 
Menominee, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Menominee State Bank, Henominee, 
Michigan, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set. forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard tio the 
safety of ics depositors, and, except wl£h the 
permission of the Beard of Governors of 'the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of sorrh bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application or.i the understanding 
that Menominee State Bank will not conduct a banking business with the 
Public prior to its merger with The Commercial Banik of Menominee, 
Menominee, Michigan. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions :cf the Board's 
Regulation R, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial referent to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the. regulation is enclosed. 

I
t T O o 
Board of Directors 
-2-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution should be transmitted to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

. 1523 
1 
Item No. 13 
5/3/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CENTRAL MORTGAGE CO. , INC. 
0£der Approving Acquisition of Banks 
and Merger of a Bank Holding Company 
Central Mortgage Co., Inc., Springfield, Missouri, a bank 
holding company, within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied in separate applications for the Board's approval 
under 5 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 50 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of (1) Farmers Bank of Stover 
("Farmers Bank::) , Stover, Missouri, and (2) Jackson County State 
Bank ("Jackson County Bank'), Kansas City, Missouri. 
Applicant 
has also applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(5) of the 
A ct (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(5)) to merge with Harmon Oil Co., Inc. 
("Harmon Oil"), Warrensburg, Missouri, a bank holding company, 
and to thereby acquire 50.225 per cent of the voting shares of 
Barton County State Bank ("Barton -County Bank"), Lamar, Missouri, 
ana 4.9 per cent of the voting shares of Jackson County Bank. 
11 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and none has been timely received. The 
-card has considered the applications in light of the factors set 
forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant engages primarily in mortgage banking and related 
insurance agency activities in Missouri and as of December 31, 
i972, held a mortgage servicing portfolio of $31 million. 

1524 
- 2 -
APPlicant controls the Citizens Bank of Warrensburg, Warrensburg, 
Missouri, with deposits of $15 million representing 0.1 per cent 
of total commercial bank deposits in Missouri. 
(All banking data 
a re as of June 30, 1972.) Approval of the proposed acquisitions 
of Farmers Bank (deposits of $4 million), Jackson County Bank 
(deposits of $21 million), and of the proposed merger with Harmon 
OilV thereby acquiring Barton County Bank (deposits of $9 million), 
would result in Applicant controlling four banks v/ith aggregate 
deposits of $49 million representing 0.4 per cent of commercial 
bank deposits in Missouri. Approval of the proposed transactions 
V;ould not represent a significant increase in the concentration 
°f banking resources in any relevant area. 
The proposed transactions essentially represent a consolida-
tion of various ownership interests of a single family. Applicant 
h as stated it will, however, as part of its proposal, register 
i ts shares under the Securities Act of 19 33 and offer them in 
exchange for shares owned by minority shareholders of each of 
its 
proposed or present banking subsidiaries.2/ 
Both Applicant 
and Harmon Oil are wholly owned by an individual and his wife 
While the same individual, his wife and members of their immediate 
family control in excess of 50 per cent of the shares of Farmers 
57 IrTaddition to its ownership of shares of Barton County Bank 
Jackson County Bank, Harmon Cil engages in certain farming 
activities. Applicant has stated the farming activities of Harmon 
Oil will cease prior to consummation of the proposed merger and 
assets related thereto will be sold. 
. 
y 
The Board has relied on such representation and expects Appli-
Cant to complete its SEC registration and to make its exchange 
°ffer to minority shareholders as expeditiously as possible. 

1525 
- 3 -
Bank and Jackson County Bank (including 4.9 per cent of the shares 
Jackson County Bank owned by Applicant). 
Farmers Bank is located in central Missouri approximately 
30 miles southeast of Sedalia, Missouri, and is the fourth largest 
°f five banks competing in the Stover area. Jackson County Bank 
i s located in the southeastern portion of Kansas City and is the 
third largest of seven banks within its immediate service area. 
Barton County Bank is located in southeastern Hissouri and is 
t^e second largest of six banks within its service area. 
The closest offices of any of the proposed subsidiary banks 
to an office of any other of the proposed or existing banking 
subsidiaries of Applicant are 55 miles apart. 
In view of the 
distances separating the banking offices, Missouri's restrictive 
b*anching laws, the common ownership of Applicant and the proposed 
subsidiaries and other facts of record, consummation of the 
Proposals would not appear to eliminate any meaningful existing 
future competition. Accordingly, the Board concludes that 
competitive considerations are consistent with approval of the 
aPPlications. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f the proposed subsidiary banks and of Applicant and its banking 
subsidiary are regarded as generally satisfactory. 
Affiliation 
the banks within a holding company structure would appear to 
facilitate certain operating efficiencies through common management 

1526 
- 4 -
and accounting and auditing programs. Thus, considerations 
delated to banking factors and the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved are consistent with approval of the applica-
tions. 
Applicant has indicated that certain farming assets it owns 
w ill he spun off to its shareholders!/ and that certain farming 
assets of Harmon Oil will be sold to Applicant's shareholders, 
applicant has also indicated it will not engage in any real 
estate sales operation in the future. 
In its considerations of 
these applications, the Board has reviewed the interfaces between 
the proposed subsidiaries and Applicant's grandfathered nonbanking 
activities and it does not appear that any adverse effects upon 
t he public interest would be attributable thereto. 
It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed acquisitions of bank shares 
and the proposed merger would be in the public interest and should 
b e approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
2/ In connection with its plan to spin off shares of a company to 
b e formed to hold certain farming assets, Applicant has requested 
a determination, pursuant to § 2(g)(3) (12 U.S.C. 1841(g)(3)) of 
Bank Holding Company Act, that it will not be capable of 
c°ntrolling the shares of the company to be formed. See 38 Federal 
Agister 8G92. 

_ 1527 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,4/ effective Hay 3, 1S73. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Pivoting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Djane, 
Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
and Brimmer. 

15/u8 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 14 
5/3/73 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, p. c. 203SJ 
• F THE 
A D D R E S S 
U r n c i A L 
C D R R C S P O 
T O 
T H , : 
D D A K C 
May 3, 1973 
Mr. William V. Skidmore 
Legislative Reference Division 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 2.0503 
—Extension of ,_thej conomic Stabilifta^ion_ Act 
Dear Mr. Skidmore: 
This letter will confirm advice given to you on Monday, 
hv Mr . Pnn 
n a 
~ ~ 
T „ 
I 
. 
, 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

of COv 
^LRt^' 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
» F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
1529 
Item No. 15 
5/3/73 
A D D R E S S orriciAc 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 3, 1973 
Mr. William V. Skidmore 
Legislative Reference Division 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D.C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Skidmore: 
\ 
The Board is pleased to respond to your request of 
April 3, 1973, for its comments on H.R. 830 which would amend 
the Truth in Lending Act. Under the proposal, creditors offer-
ing a "free ride" period in open end credit plans (revolving 
accounts) would be prohibited from imposing a finance charge 
unless the billing statement was mailed at least 21 days prior 
to the date payment must be made to avoid the imposition of 
finance charges. 
Although the 21 day period may be feasible for large 
creditors with computer facilities, smaller creditors using 
manual equipment may be unable to satisfy this requirement. 
The 21 day period also may leave little leeway for computer 
malfunction, correction of errors, holidays and other occasional 
situations which would necessitate a longer period for prepara-
tion of the statement. Therefore, a less restrictive provision 
may be appropriate. The Board suggests that the period be a few 
I days shorter than 21 days. 
It might be noted that the Board gave similar comments 
to the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and 
Urban Affairs on § 163 of S. 652 when that Bill was being con-
sidered by the Senate last session, and as finally adopted by 
the Senate the period by which billing statements must be mailed 
was reduced. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

_1530 
B D A R D 
D F G O V E R N • R S 
5/3/73°' 
" 
, ; o o V c o - 
. 
o r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• 
2 * 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
WW*! 
RES'6-.' 
. A D D R E S S OrriCIAL 
C D R R C S P D N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
D O A R D 
May 3, 1973 
Mr. William V. Skidmore 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, De C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Skidinore: 
This letter conveys the judgment of the Board on the seven 
legislative recommendations set forth in the Legislative Referral 
Memorandum dated April 19, 1973« The views expressed here are similar 
to those set forth in the Board letter of April 5, 1973 to Deputy 
Secretary of the Treasury Simon in response to the recommendations of 
a Treasury memorandum dated March 19, 1973e 
Before turning to the 
specific issues, the Board would like to point out that its objections 
to several of the legislative proposals—particularly to the proposals 
under recommendations 1 and 2--reflect fundamental disagreement on 
matters of substantial, importance to the effective conduct of monetary 
policy and to the stability of financial markets. These matters deserve 
the most careful consideration. 
The Board wishes to emphasize once again that there are some 
general principles of overriding importance that must be kept in mind 
in evaluating the legislative recommendations. 
The Board believes strongly that uniform reserve requirements 
should be applied to all demand deposits of member and nonmember commercial 
banks. More generally, it believes that any accounts involving money 
transfer services, including NOW-type accounts, should be subject to 
reserve requirements that are uniform among all institutions offering 
such accounts. Universal reserve requirements are essential for the 
effective conduct of monetary policy. They are also needed for competitive 
equi ty. 
Presently, the Board's reserve requirements discriminate against 
member banks competitively and are resulting in withdrawals from member-
ship in the. Federal Reserve System. 
Should tha percentage of bank deposits 

1531 
Mr. William Skidmore 
-2-
subject to Federal Reserve reserve requirements continue to decline, 
greater imprecision and uncertainty would be injected into the 
Federal Reserve's ability to control monetary aggregates.* 
The need for uniform reserve requirements for member and 
non-member banks has long been recognized; a succession of study 
groups has supported this principle. Its substance was embodied in 
the recommendations of a Congressional Committee chaired by Senator 
Douglas in 1950, and repeated in 1952 in the recommendations of a 
Congressional Committee chaired by Congressman Patman. In 1961, the 
Commission on Money and Credit also endorsed the principle, as did 
the Committee on Financial Institutions in 1963. 
In 1971, the 
President's Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation (Hunt 
Commission) proposed that all institutions offering demand deposits 
be required to belong to the Federal Reserve System. This proposal 
was a crucial part of the Commission's program for equalizing regulatory 
burdens among banks and thrift institutions. 
The Board does not believe it is necessary to require System 
membership for all institutions offering demand deposits or N0W~type 
accounts. What is essential is that all such accounts be subject to 
uniform reserve requirements, with all such reserves represented by 
vault cash or deposits at the Federal Reserve Banks. 
More generally, the Board believes that wide-scale structural 
reform should pursue the objectives of basic equality of regulatory 
treatment for all financial institutions with similar powers, not only 
with respect to reserve requirements, but with respect to interest rate 
ceilings and taxation as well. This principle will become increasingly 
important as depository institutions become more and more alike. 
Any program aimed at restructuring the system of deposit 
intermediation must be carefully designed to protect the soundness of 
banks and thrift institutions. Moreover, any resulting changes that 
would serve to reduce materially the supply of residential mortgage 
credit would be a matter of grave concern to the Administration, the 
Congress, and the Board. 
It is against the background of these principles that the 
following observations on the seven groups of recommendations are 
offered. 
1, Interest Ceilings on Savings Accounts (Regulation Q, etc.) 
The Board supports the general goal of eventual elimination of 
interest rate ceilings on time and savings deposits. Attainment of that 
poal however, can be acccmpiished only when the ability of thrift 
institutions to compete effectively for funds in a climate of fluctuating 
A copy of a recent address by Chairman Burns dealing with this 
ouhject is attached to thi3 1e11er. 

Mr. William Skidraore 
-3-
153^ 
market interest rates has been clearly demonstrated. 
Implementation 
of the proposed recommendations would lead in time to a substantial 
improvement in the maturity structure of assets and liabilities of 
nonbank thrift institutions. As conditions permit, ceilings should 
be raised or suspended. 
But the proposed legislation should not 
require immediate suspension. 
In the case of NOW accounts, a rate ceiling would be needed 
from the outset, in the Board's judgment, and should be the same for 
all institutions. 
The NOW account ceilings might start at a low rate, 
such as one per cent, and be gradually increased, since transitional 
effects are difficult to forecast and could entail serious problems. 
Thus, the Board recommends a flexible phase-out of ceiling 
rates, rather than immediate removal at some specified date. 
Complete 
elimination of powers to set ceiling rates should await evidence that 
thrift institutions and small commercial banks can withstand sharp 
changes in market interest rates. Termination of authority might be 
left to the discretion of the agencies that administer them. 
The proposal, in the Legislative Referral Memorandum would 
not permit the use of ceilings to protect the mortgage market, nor 
would it permit ceilings to be used to prevent the threat of insolvency 
of financial institutions, except under restricted conditions. 
Tne Board 
believes that reimposition of ceilings should be possible when it is 
clear that uncontrolled rat-cs threaten to uudemine the safety and 
soundness of depository institutions, or conflict with other public 
interest considerations. 
The Board believes that existing arrangements under which the 
Federal Reserve sets interest rate ceilings after consultation with the 
FDIC and the FHLBB have worked reasonably well, and is opposed to the 
proposal to substitute a five-agency committee. The Federal Reserve 
is the best single place (as recommended by the Hunt Commission) to 
vest authority to set ceilings because of its monetary responsibilities 
and experience. 
The second best, and perhaps more practical, course is 
t:o leave the authority where it presently is. 
2• 
Expanded Deposit Liability Fowers and Reserves 
As stated at the outset of this letter, the Board strongly 
recommends that member and nonmember commercial banks be subject to 
uniform reserve requirements on demand deposit*. 
The Board also recommends that all commercial banks and thrift 
institutions be subject to uniform reserve requirements on NOW-type 
account s. 

1533 
Mr. William Skidmore 
-2-
The Board believes that NOW account privileges (but not 
demand deposit privileges) should be extended to all depository 
institutions, but that the class of depositor eligible to hold NOW 
accounts should be confined to households. The Board sees no useful 
purpose in permitting corporations to hold savings accounts. 
Since the establishment of the Federal Reserve System, the 
Board has set reserve requirements on demand deposits. The Board does 
not object to the new proposal that it consult with the FHLBB in setting 
reserve requirements on NOW accounts. The Board does not, however, 
agree that it should consult with the FHLBB in setting reserve requirements 
on demand deposits, since changes in these reserve requirements are 
likely to be key instruments of monetary policy at times, and both 
timeliness and strict confidentiality are of utmost importance. 
The Board endorses a broadened authority for it to set reserve 
requirements for demand deposits, provided that the range be set between 
some minimal figure, such as 5 per cent, and 22 per cent. " The Board 
opposes lowering the limits of reserve requirements on commercial bank 
savings and time deposits to a range of 0 to 4 per cent. Such required 
reserves are a potentially useful weapon for combating excessive increases 
in commercial bank credit. The Board would endorse a broadened authority 
to set reserve requirements on time and savings deposits between some 
minimal amount, such a 1 or 2 per cent, and 10 per cent. The Board 
believes that reserve requirements for NOW accounts should be set some-
where between the requirements for demand deposits and those for savings 
accounts. 
The Board believes that all reserves held against demand and 
MOW accounts should be represented by vault cash or deposits at Federal 
Reserve banks. The Board does not object to the proposal for thrift 
institutions to hold deposits with the FHLBB system, so long as all 
such reserves must be rcdeposited at Federal Reserve banks. 
The Board is opposed to permitting government securities to 
be used to fulfill part of reserve requirements on demand deposits and 
NOW accounts, since this confuses the role Treasury securities play 
in providing bank liquidity and the function of reserve requirements 
in monetary management. Furthermore, this provision could open the 
door to efforts to finance Federal outlays by mandated bank purchases 
of government debt. 
As a technical matter, the proposals for third party payment 
powers contained in the Legislative Referral Memorandum of April 19 
apply only lo Federally-chartered institutions, whereas the proposals 
contained in the Treasury memo of March 19 applied to all commercial 
banks and thrift institutions. The Board assumes that the proposals 
of April 19 are meant to include all state-chartered depository 
institutions presently subject to Federal regulation. 

Mr. William Skidmore 
-5-
. 1534 
3. Expanded Lending and Investment Powers 
The Board generally supports the principle of asset 
diversification for mutual savings banks and savings and loan 
associations. Broadening the lending powers of thrift institutions, 
however, would raise some question as to the impact on the long-run 
supply of mortgage credit. As noted in the Board's le^or ^ r April 5, 
this problem might be remedied by the proposed tax credit, but informa-
tion is needed on the specific rate and other conditions of the tax 
credit to assess the implications for mortgage credit supplies. 
The Board opposes the proposal to allow Federally-chartered 
thrift institutions to invest in equity securities or real estate. 
The Board believes, however, that thrift institutions and commercial 
banks should be allowed to invest, to a limited degree, in mortgages 
that include some participation in income. Such "equity participations" 
should be confined to mortgages on residential and related properties. 
Indirect equity investment through exercise of warrants or 
conversion of debt to equity should be prohibited. 
Thrift institutions already making equity investments which 
convert to Federal charters could justifiably be allowed to keep those 
i. n v e s t me n t s a f t e r c o n v e r s i o n. 
The Board prefers the recommendations set forth in the Treasury 
proposal of March 19 with respect to allowable percentages of assets 
that thrift institutions may invest in consumer loans and "leeway" 
provision loans. But the Board does agree that consumer loans should 
be permitted under the "leeway" provision. The Board assumes that 
"rehabilitation loans" means "community rehabilitation and development 
loans," and approves of inclusion of such loans under the "leeway" 
provision for both commercial banks and thrift institutions. 
The Board believes that expanded investment powers for 
thrift institutions should be phased in, since thrift institutions, 
in an initial effort to reach new legal maximums in various asset 
catagorj.es, might cut back severely on their acquisitions of new 
mortgages. This might best be accomplished by providing for step 
increases in the allowable percentage of total assets that may be 
invested in various asset categories. 
The Board endorses the proposals to liberalize restrictions 
on real estate lending by national banks arid to permit banks to 
borrow upon any security satisfactory to the Federal Reserve banks 
at rates to be determined by the Federal Reserve* 
The proposals for expanded lending and investment powers 
apply only to Federally chartered thrift institutions and national 
banks. The Board assumes that the "leeway" proposals for national 
banks will also be applied to statc-chartered member banks under 

Mr. William Skidrnore 
- 6 -
1535 
Section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, and that the proposals for • 
Federally-chartered thrift institutions will be expanded to include 
member state-chartered institutions in a similar manner. 
^• Charters for Thrift Institutions 
The Board endorses in general the proposal on charters 
for thrift institutions. The Board assumes that the "leeway" provision 
for "grandfathered" investments refers to investments that would be 
prohibited for Federal institutions or would exceed limitations for 
various restricted classes of investments at the time of conversion. 
The Board believes that such "grandfathered" investments should be 
restricted to 10 per cent of assets, and that the amount of investments 
in a restricted category should not be allowed to increase so long as 
the Federal limitation for that category is exceeded. 
5. Credit Unions 
The Board concurs, in general, with the proposals for credit 
unions set forth in the Legislative Referral Memorandum. 
6. FHA and VA Interest Ceilings 
The Board endorses the proposal that F1IA and VA interest 
ceilings be eliminated. 
7. Taxes 
The Board endorses the proposal for equal tax treatment with 
respect to additions to loan loss reserves. 
The Board is not opposed to a tax credit on mortgage interest 
income. However, detailed information is still lacking. Most importantly, 
no estimate has yet been provided of the siy.e of the tax credit. Further-
more, we are not informed regarding its applicability to GNMA mortgage-
backed bonds and non-residential mortgages, and no estimates have been 
provided concerning its likely distribution among various classes of 
institutional investors and other lenders. The Board would like to 
point out once more that one limitation of such a tax credit is that 
it would provide no inducement to investors with no tax liabilities, 
i nc1uding pe nsion funds„ 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Attachment 
