MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 22, 1973 

1782 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
stem on Tuesday, May 22, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 
15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counse1 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
rew from the meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1783 
5/22/73 
-2-
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
FOMC policy records. At the meeting of the Board on May 8, 
1973 • 
in connection with a discussion of a draft policy record for the 
m e e ting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on February 13, 1973, 
Board had considered the question of the amount of quantitative 
formation that should be included in the passages in the FOMC policy 
c°rds reporting the Committee's policy decisions. At that time it 
b e en decided that no change should be made from recent practice in 
thi 
regard. 
The subject had been raised for further consideration by 
me^orandum from the FOMC Secretariat dated May 18, 1973, transmitting 
revised draft policy record for the FOMC meeting of March 19-20, 1973, 
incorporated certain additional quantitative information on the 
^fnmitt-p • 
L e e s objectives. Also transmitted with the memorandum was an 
a lter n an 
L l v e version of the passage describing the Committee s decision 
w^ich the additional quantitative information was omitted, for consid-
erati0n • 
in the event the Board preferred to continue the form of record 
t^at had k 
been employed in the recent past. A separate memorandum from 
the F° M C Secretariat, dated May 21, 1973, set forth arguments for and 

t7m 
5/22/73 
-3-
against incorporating additional quantitative information of the kind 
Suggested. 
After discussion, the Board agreed that no change should be 
made from recent practice pending a more thorough review of the question 
W the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee, and that it would be 
^sirable for the Chairman to appoint a subcommittee of the Open Market 
G°mmittee to make recommendations to the Board and the Committee. Con-
® is t"o 
• 
Lent with this agreement, the Board approved for inclusion in its 
A n n u a l Report for 1973 the revised draft policy record for the FOMC 
m e eti n g held on March 19-20, 1973, distributed on May 18, 1973, on the 
Uaderstanding that the alternative version of the passage describing 
Committee's policy decision, rather than the version incorporating 
^itional quantitative information, would be employed. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting during the preceding 
d i s cussi o n. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, 
aPPlication of First Pennsylvania Overseas Finance Corporation, 
^ladelphia, Pennsylvania, to establish First Pennsylvania Overseas 
De V e l n n 
uPment Company (Cayman) Limited, Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman 
l a a d s> and to merge into that company its subsidiary First Pennsylvania 
0vers 
letter 
eas Development Company, Limited, Nassau, Bahamas. A copy of the 
Sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 

5/22/73 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Philadelphia 
International Investment Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to 
Acquire shares of CIAVE American Corporation, New York, New York. A 
copy of tjle ^ e t t e r sent: to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Deposit 
T 
Surance Corporation, the State of Michigan Banking Commissioner, Bank 
the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, and the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Oh 4 cago inviting their comments on a proposal to make a technical modifi 
11 Hn * 
n in the cease and desist order issued against Bank of the Common-
Wealth on January 18, 1972. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No 
The Board unanimously approved an interpretation, effective 
e 
1973, of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, that would clarify the 
Re §ulation's provisions concerning the computation of annual percentage 
rates i 
j-n certain open end credit accounts where daily rates, as opposed 
m°nthly rates, are applied in figuring the finance charge. A copy of 
the int. 
^•ucerpretation is attached as Item No. 4. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
^egulation dated May 16, 1973, the Board unanimously approved a 
letter t-c° the Federal Reserve Bank of New York authorizing the commence-
ment of 
a study of advisory and related activities undertaken by banking 
lzations with respect to real estate investment trusts. A copy 
of 
6 letter is attached as Item No. 5. 

1786 
5/22/73 
-5-
The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the applications 
°f Geneva Investment Company, Lincoln, Nebraska, (1) to become a bank 
L -
°lding company through acquisition of shares of Fillmore County Bank, 
neva, Nebraska, and (2) to continue to engage in insurance activities 
trough Bixby Insurance Agency, also of Geneva. The Board authorized 
lssuance of an order reflecting these decisions. A copy is attached as 
Ite 
Governor Brimmer dissented for the reasons set forth in 
dissenting statement in the matter of the application of CBT Corpora-
t i 
n> Hartford, Connecticut, to acquire General Discount Corporation 
(order dated May 14, 1973). 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
New England Merchants Company. At the meeting on April 26, 
» the Board considered the application of New England Merchants 
mPany} Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of Hancock Bank 
9nd Trncf-
i U St Company, Quincy, Massachusetts, but deferred action to allow 
e rs more time for study. 
At today's meeting the Board unanimously denied the application 
Qtid aut-h 
—Eilorized^ issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 7. 
Grandfather rights (D. H. Baldwin Company). At the meeting on 
y 
1973, the Board reviewed the nonbanking activities of D. H. 
Baldwin r 
company, Cincinnati, Ohio, under the grandfather provisions of 
K Holding Company Act. The activities under review fell into 

5/22/73 
-6-
four groups: 
(1) manufacture and sale of musical instruments, enter-
tainment devices, learning and teaching systems, accessories, and related 
Research and development; 
(2) manufacture and sale of electronic products 
Si n H 
lQ accessories, with related research and development; 
(3) financing 
o f instalment sales to consumers of dealer inventories; and (4) leasing 
of 
Personal property. The Board unanimously agreed at the January 23 
meGting upon a preliminary determination that Baldwin should be required 
t o divest its activities in the first and second groups, and that the 
staff should develop further information regarding the third and fourth 
§r°uPs of activities. 
In memoranda dated March 28, 1973, from the Division of Super-
Vlsion and Regulation and March 30, 1973, from the Legal Division, the 
staff 
reviewed Baldwin's plans to divest various nonbanking activities 
recommended that Baldwin should not be required to terminate its 
rather privileges with respect to its musical activities. The 
Lfigg 1 r\ • 
U3-vision memorandum noted the absence of a legal basis on which 
Board could base the termination of Baldwin's grandfather privileges 
ltl this area. 
After discussion at today's meeting, the Board agreed, Governor 
Br j j ^ 
e r dissenting, that Baldwin be allowed to retain its indefinite 
3ndfather privileges with respect to its musical activities. 
Governor 
'tomer believed that the grandfather privileges should be terminated, 

1788 
5/22/73 
-7-
and that Baldwin should make a decision whether to engage in the banking 
business or the musical instrument business. A determination reflecting 
ttlG B o a rd's decision was subsequently issued. A copy is attached under 
along with a copy of Governor Brimmer's dissenting statement. 
One-bank holding company acquisitions. 
In a memorandum of 
April 19, 1973, Mr. Holland responded to the Board's request for his 
w s with respect to the position the Board should adopt regarding 
nonbanking activities of a one-bank holding company seeking to 
acquire additional banks. 
After a brief discussion, the Board deferred action on this 
Matter 
• n 
a future meeting. 
Security New York State Corporation. As recommended by the 
Divigj n of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
in g 
memorandum of May 10, 1973, the Board unanimously approved the 
P l i cati 0 n of Security New York State Corporation, Rochester, New York, 
acquire shares of First Trust Union Bank, Wellsville, New York. It 
W a s Undo 
rstood that an order reflecting this decision would be prepared 
B°ard's consideration. 
for 
^nk-pf Boulder. The Board unanimously denied the application 
°f Ba^k nf 
Boulder, Boulder, Colorado, a proposed new bank, for membership 
the 
Gderal Reserve System. 
It was understood that the bank would be 
Informed °f the Board's decision and that it would be given an opportunity 
withd 
its application. 
(Note: The application was subsequently 
W i t h d r a „ n 0 

1789 
5/22/73 
-8-
Staff members not directly connected with discussion of the 
next item then withdrew from the meeting. 
Stock market developments. Mr. Kichline of the Capital Markets 
S e * 
ction reviewed recent stock market and margin credit developments. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
Placed i n t h e Board's files.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
. 1790 
Item No. 1 
5/22/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C 0 R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 22, 1973 
Pennsylvania Overseas 
finance Corporation 
phil
teenth and Chestnut Streets 
iadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
of G o
 
A s requested in your letter of December 27, 1972, the Board 
and hl?cin0r? g r a n t s c o n s e n t f o r 
Corporation ("FPOFC") to purchase 
0verSg 
' directly or indirectly, all of the shares of First Pennsylvania 
^ a n d ^ D e v e l o P m e n t Company (Cayman) Limited ("FPODCC"), Georgetown, 
V i d e d 
^ynian> Cayman Islands, at a cost of approximately $25,000, pro-
letter 
6 s h a r e s a r e acquired within one year from the date of this 
^irst^ f° r F P 0 D C C t 0 a c cl u i r e the assets and assume the liabilities 
Bahama
S ^ennsvlvania Overseas Development Company, Limited, Nassau, 
shares r- T n e B o a r d ' s consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
FPODCC by FPOFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
That FPOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FPODCC if FPODCC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if FPODCC establishes any branch 
o r agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in the Cayman Islands or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to FPOFC; 
(2) 
fhat, when requested by the Board of Governors, FPOFC 
w^-ll furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FPODCC as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) 
T h 
"at any share acquisitions or dispositions by FPODCC 
^ reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
^he same mariner as if FPODCC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

First Pennsylvania Overseas 
finance Corporation 
-2-
_ 1791 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
spends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
^ e immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
jg a t e 
restrictions on loans granted by FPODCC in the Cayman 
ands in the currency of that country. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that FPODCC 
of 
* 
f o r developing international business and not as a means 
part'1 
§ domestic business from offices in the United States. In 
such^11^ ^ ' F P 0 D G C should do no business with U.S. residents unless 
f0r . usiness is clearly related to a bona fide international or 
business transaction. 
Philad 
a d d i t i o n J FPOFC shall maintain at its head office in 
info 
G . 1:La ancl make available to examiners of the Board complete 
ti0n
rmati"0n o n FPODCC1 s transactions with U.S. residents and informa-
to mak G C e S S a r y t 0 a s s e s s t h c financial condition of FPODCC. Failure 
a vini° adec3uat:e information available to examiners shall be deemed 
nation of this consent. 
invostn--. ^ k 6 ^ o r e§ o i nS consent is given on the condition that the 
as tj 
w ill be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
a£fil-i 
t o F i r s t Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company and its 
j-i.ates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
. 1 7 9 * 
Item No. 2 
5/22/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 22, 1973 
•Philadelphia International 
Investment Corporation 
0. Box 7618 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 28, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("PIIC") 
t o Purchase and hold up to 51 per cent of the shares of CIAVE 
^erican Corporation ("CAC"), New York, New York, at a cost of 
aPProximately $5,100, provided the shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter* In granting this consent the 
^ard understands that CAC will engage in the business of arranging 
financing for foreign projects and that it will not accept deposits 
i n the United States, 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of CAC bv PIIC is granted subject to the following con-
ations: 
(1) That PIIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CAC if: (i) CAC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hole! stock; (ii) CAC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in the United States or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to PIIC; or (iii) 
CAC receives any deposits in the United States; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, PIIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of CAC as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CAC be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if CAC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

Philadelphia International 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
1703 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
at the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
ank of Philadelphia, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
Association, and By-Laws of CAC^ 
Your attention is directed to the fact that CAC will have no 
filing of its own under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program and the 
^egoing approval is given on the condition that any foreign loans 
to 1
i'TlVestinents of CAC will be made within the Guidelines as they apply 
° The Philadelphia National Bank and its affiliates0 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
. 1794 
Item No. 3 
5/22/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 24, 1973 
Th 
* Honorable Frank Wille 
firman 
FederAi n 
WaQk- 
deposit Insurance Corporation 
Kington, D. C. 20429 
Re: Modification of BOC Cease and Desist 
Order Pursuant to Request of United 
States Trust Company of New York 
D e a r "r. W i U e ; 
under
 
Ttle Un3"-t:ccI States Trust Company of New York, the Trustee 
on ty r
 le Capital Note Indenture executed by Bank of the Commonwealth 
by 
' 1966, has requested that the Cease and Desist Order issued 
JanUa^ 
Governors against Bank of the Commonwealth on 
£ica.ti.y 
^ ^ ' b e modified. Specifically, the Trustee seeks modi-
the Tr°U 
Paragraph 3 of the Order which restricts the remedies of 
ofSt(?e a n d c aP i t al noteholders in the event of any default by 
the. r.1"116 G o m m o n w e alth under the Indenture. In effect, paragraph 3 
fcarik 0£ 
e r Proscribes the Trustee from requiring the payment by 
any 
t a e Commonwealth of the whole amount of the capital notes upon 
and aU"'t' -*-ncluding default in the payment of scheduled interest 
constandat°ry rc^emPtion 
capital notes; paragraph 3 may also 
seiti:Ua' ruGc^ t o proscribe the Trustee from requiring payment of the 
ual interest, or annual mandatory redemption payments themselves. 
si-derat' ^ t e r discussing this matter with the Trustee and upon con-
thfc Order11'-1 ^ 
t o believe that some limited modification of 
S*-tliati 
m3-8ht be appropriate to deal with this purely hypothetical 
rGtir0m°n' Since the orderly scheduled interest payments on and 
structur
11 ~ o f the capital notes would not unduly deplete the capital 
n o t 
B a n k °£ the Commonwealth, the Cease and Desist Order was 
H 
atteri o 
nefeforo 
a s 
t 0 Pr°scribe such payments. It seems consistent, 
c°Ver 
t o allow the Trustee to pursue appropriate remedies to re-
o f " araoui-t: of any unpaid interest or mandatory redemption in the 
6lieve h ° 
^ 
a ny required payment thereof. On the other hand, I 
p0t Bank U a t i n t n e inl:erests of securing an adequate capital structure 
F>oraf0f CoTlmo^v;ealth (in which the Federal Deposit Insurance 
f?Cribe "1ou *laD a substantial interest) the Order should continue to pro-
any dof a ^ m e n t of the entire amount of the capital notes in the event of 

^ 
Honorable Frank Wille 
- 2 -
r e 
For your information, I am enclosing copies of the Trustee's 
dat^St d a t e d March 2, 1972, Governor Robertson's initial response thereto 
Mr m Ak?ril 2 1' 1972, and a memorandum on this matter written by 
ttent inaCCi"0 o f t h e B o a r d ' s staff. There are also enclosed draft docu-
Bes*S 
would implement the limited modification of the Cease and 
Agre
St 0 r d e r discussed above (Modification of Cease and Desist Order; 
and Consent to Issuance of Modification; and explanatory trans-
sUg 
letter to the Trustee). I would appreciate your comments and 
the • t i o n s r e sP e c ting either the merits of the proposed modification or 
Elementing documents. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Frederic Solomon 
E n c l°s u r e s 
Frederic Solomon 
Director 

; _1796 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of 
BANK OF THE COMMONWEALTH, et al., 
Detroit, Michigan. 
Modification of Cease and Desist 
Order Issued on Consent Pursuant 
to Financial Institutions 
Supervisory Act of 1966. 
Pursuant to the Agreement and Consent to Issuance of 
Modification of Cease and Desist Order under Financial Institutions 
Supervisory Act of 1966 entered into between the Board of 
Governors and Bank of the Commonwealth on 
1973, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the Cease and Desist Order 
ssued on Consent Pursuant to Financial Institutions Supervisory 
A c t of 1965 fn 
mattor on January 18, 1972, shall be, and hereby 
is 
> modified by deleting the period at the end of said paragraph 3 
hereof and by adding at the end of said paragraph the following: 
» Provided, that after 
1973, (and limited solely to 
n y G c t of default specifically referred to hereinafter and which 
Ccurs after 
1973) no limitation hereinbefore con-
11 * 
3 n e d shall apply to the Remedies of the Trustee and Capital Note-
holders on Event of Default respecting the Events of Default set 
in § 7.01(2), relating to the payment of semi-annual install-
°nts of interest on the capital notes, or <3 7.01(3), relating to 

-2-
the scheduled annual mandatory redemption by mandatory sinking fund 
payment of $750,000 principal amount of said capital notes as set 
forth iu § 4.01, insofar as such Remedies could require Respondent 
Bank to pay all matured installments of interest on the capital notes 
°r to require Respondent Bank to pay the principal of any and all 
capital notes which have become due by such mandatory redemption; 
and Provided further, that no exemption to the limitations herein-
before set forth respecting the Remedies of the Trustee and Capital 
Noteholders on Event of Default, contained in the foregoing proviso, 
shail be construed to permit Respondent Bank to set aside funds for 
payment of or pay the principal of all of the capital notes, or 
any portion thereof other than the amount of such capital notes which 
have become due by such mandatory redemption 
In each and every other respect, the provisions of the 
C(-ase and Desist Order issued on January 18, 1972, shall remain 
e£fective and enforceable. 
Dated this 
day of 
1973. 
o f T h e q0MM0NWEALT\I 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
i 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[SEAL] 
By_ 
[SEAL] 

1798 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of 
BANK OF THE COMMONWEALTH, ct al., 
Detroit, Michigan. 
Agreement and Consent to 
Issuance of Modification of 
Cease and Desist Order under 
Financial Institutions 
Supervisory Act of 1966, 
IT IS HEREBY AGREED, by and between the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System and Bank of the Commonwealth that, 
without proceedings, paragraph 3 of the Cease and Desist Order issued 
on January 18, 1972, by the Board of Governors in the above-captioned 
matter, shall immediately be modified by deleting the period at the 
e*d of said paragraph 3 and by adding at the end thereof the follow-
ing: 
Provided, that after 
1973, (and limited solely 
^ any act of default specifically referred to hereinafter and which 
occurs after 
1973) no limitation hereinbefore con-
fined shall apply to the Remedies of the Trustee and Capital Note-
holders on Event of Default respecting the Events of Default set 
J!°rth in § 7.01(2), relating to the payment of semi-annual install-
ments of interest on the capital notes, or § 7.01(3), relating to 
scheduled annual mandatory redemption by mandatory sinking fund 
Payment of $750,000 principal amount of said capital notes as set 
forth in § 4.01, insofar as such Remedies could require Respondent 

1799 
- 2 -
Bank to pay all matured installments o£ interest on the capital 
notes 01: to require Respondent Bank to pay the principal of any 
and all capital notes which have become due by such mandatory re-
demption; and Provided further, that no exemption to the limitations 
hereinbefore set forth respecting the Remedies of the Trustee and 
Capital Noteholders on Event of Default, contained in the foregoing 
proviso, shall be construed to permit Respondent Bank to set aside 
funds for the payment of or pay the principal of all of the capital 
not-es, or any portion thereof other than the amount of such capital 
n°tes which have become due by such mandatory redemption." 
In each and every other respect, the provisions of the 
Cease and Desist Order issued on January 18, 1972, shall remain 
effective and enforceable. 
IT IS HEREBY FURTHER AGREED, that said modification of the 
Cease and Desist Order may be stricken, in the sole discretion of 
t he Board of Governors, from the Order at any time without the 
necessity for notification to or agreement with Bank of the 
Commonwealth and at such time shall be of no force and effect 
whatsoever. 
Dated this 
day of 
1973. 
BANK OF THE COMMONWEALTH 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
By. 
[SEAL] 
[SEAL] 

1800 
Seymour Kleinman, Esq. 
Golenboclc and Bar ell 
60 East 42nd Street 
New York, New York 
10017 
Re: Cease and Desist Order Issued to Bank of 
the C o m m o n w e a l t h Under Financial Institutions 
Supervisory Act of I966_. 
Dear Mr. Kleinman: 
This will refer to previous correspondence in this 
matter, particularly your letter of March 2, 1972, and a reply 
thereto signed by Governor Robertson dated April 21, 1972. 
In 
response to your request, the Cease and Desist Order issued against 
'Bank of the Commonwealth on January 18, 1972, by the Board of 
Governors has been modified as set forth in the Modification of 
Cease and Desist Order dated 
1973, a copy of which 
is annexed hereto. 
The terms of the Modification to the Order make clear 
that the Trustee is not proscribed from requiring Bank to pay each 
semi-annual installment of interest on the capital notes and to re-
deem annually such portions of the capital notes as are required to 
redeemed by mandatory provisions of the Capital Note Indenture 
dated May 1, 1966. For the reasons set forth in Governor Robertson' 
letter dated April 21, 1972, the provisions of the Order which place 
* limitation on the Remedies of the Trustee and Capital Noteholders 
^ Event of Default respecting payment of the entire principal amour. 
^ 
cuch capital notes in the event of any default have not been modi 
fiod. As thus modified. the terms of the Cease and Desist Order, 

1801 
Seymour Kleinman, Esq. 
-2-
therefore, do not prohibit the Trustee cither from requiring bank 
°f the Commonwealth to pay matured installments of interest or 
from requiring Bank to make matured mandatory redemptions of its 
outstanding capital notes; but the Cease and Desist Order continues 
to proscribe payment of the entire amount of such capital notes in 
the event: of any default. 
It should also be noted that the terms 
o f the Agreement to Issuance of the Modification between the Board 
Bank of the Commonwealth provides that the terms of the Modifi-
cation of Cease and Desist Order may be stricken, in the nole dis-
cretion of the Board, from the Order at any time without notice. 
While the Modification of Cease and Desist Order has been 
issued pursuant to your request, it is understood between the Trustee 
the Board that the Trustee has not been admitted as a party to 
the Cease and Desist proceeding against Bank of the Commonwealth and 
that the Trustee will not assert any right to be notified should the 
Board in its sole discretion determine to strike the terms of the 
Modification from the Cease and Desist Order issued on January 18, 1972. 
Very truly yours, 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

'oo^coV;-. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
5/22/73 
S-2238 
A D D R E S S arnciAi C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Kay 31, 1973 
t. 
Enclosed is a copy of an interpretation of Regula-
on Z, "Truth in Lending" relating to technical provisions 
Prescribe the procedures to be used by a creditor in 
on 
tlle annual percentage rate disclosed to a customer 
1 s billing statement on an open end credit account. 
Fed • 
* n t : e rP r e t a ti o n will be published shortly in the 
e r a l Agister and in the June 1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Closure 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
/ 
/ 
o 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
AND T ^ E S I D E K T S 0 F A L L f e d e r a l RESERVE BANKS 
iiffi VICE RESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

. 180.3 
" 
4 
S-2233-a 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226—TRUTH IN LENDING 
Daily periodic rate; computation of the annual percentage rate 
This interpretation relates to technical provisions of 
*e&ulation 2 which prescribe the procedures to be used by a creditor 
V? computing the annual percentage rate disclosed to a customer on his 
bflb-ng statement on an open end credit account, such as a revolving 
account at a department store, or a bank credit card or check 
0 V e^raft plan. The interpretation clarifies the method of computation 
Of 
^ annual percentage rate when daily periodic rates (rates that are 
• t o each day's outstanding balance) are used in figuring the 
£irian ' 
1 
ce,charge on the account. 
§ 
9Or 
• 506 Daily periodic rate: computation of the annual percentage_rate 
(a) Under §§ 226.5(a)(l)(ii), (3)<i), and (3)(ii), the quotient 
n C0TnPuting the annual percentage rate in open end credit accounts 
EUlst f 
G multiplied "by the number of billing cycles in a year'. The 
bestir* 
o n arises as to the method which should be used to compute the annual 
PStr 
-cntage rate under those sections where a daily periodic rate (or rates) 
l s used. 
(b) In any open end credit account to which the provisions of 
§ 5 2 
6*5<a>(l)(ii) or 226.5(a)(3)(i) apply, where all or a portion of the 

4 
1804 
-2-
finance charge is determined by the application of one or more daily periodic 
r a t G s> 
annual percentage rate may be determined (1) by dividing the 
t 0 t a l finance charge by the average of daily balances and multiplying the 
Quotient by the number of billing cycles in a year, or alternatively (2) 
b y d i v i ding the total finance charge by the sum of the daily balances and 
multiplying the quotient by 365. 
(c) In any open end credit account to which the provisions of 
§ J* r 
^•5<a)(3)(ii) apply, where a portion of the finance charge is determined 
b y aPPHcation of one or more daily periodic rates, the phrase "sum of the 
faces'1 i n footnote 5a shall also mean the "average of daily balances". 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1606) 
This interpretation is effective June 1, 1973. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 22, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 

Cow-., 
A. 
•S* 
I w 
^RtStf.'' 
B O A R D DF 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
JX>05 
Item No. 5 
5/22/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
H O A R D 
May 23, 1973 
Fred W. Fi.derit, Jr. 
vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, Now York 10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
The Board has reviewed the proposed approach and cost 
Climates contained in your letter dated May 9, 1973, relative 
a study of advisory and related activities undertaken by 
diking organizations with respect to real estate investment 
•Ur,ts, and has authorized me to inform you that the project may 
commence. 
We trust the pilot interviews planned will provide 
insight needed to firm up your approach to the project, 
p Sequent to these pilot interviews, we would expect that the 
J ard s staff would work closely with your staff in shaping 
Parameter?; of the project and providing input with respect 
the techniques employed and the type of information to be 
gathered, 
j 
If the pilot interviews result in substantial changes 
the outlined approach or in cost estimates, the Board would 
Pect to be informed before the study moves forward. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester Be Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary 

1806 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/22/73 
GENEVA INVESTMENT COMPANY 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company and 
Continuation of Insurance Agency Activities 
Geneva Investment Company, Lincoln, Nebraska, has applied 
r ^ e Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), of formation of a bank holding company 
thr 
°ugh acquisition of 94.67 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
m° r e County Bank, Geneva, Nebraska ("Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's 
Pprov*l, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and 
(2) 
of the Board's Regulation Y, to continue to engage in 
activit:ies of a general insurance agency in a community of less 
t h a n 5,000 p e r s o n s . 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in 
arid 
)1?darice wlth §§ 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
VieV;s h a s expired. The Board has considered the applications and 
C 0 T n m e n t a received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f the A 
A ct (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified in 
5 4 ( C )<*) of the Act. 
APPlicant (wholly-owned by one individual) was organized in 
1971 aild 
> shortly thereafter, acquired the insurance agency activities 
Previously had been conducted as a proprietorship by Bank's 
Ptevi0Ug 
Principal shareholder. Bank, with deposits of $6 million, 
COtltrols 1 2 9 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the Fillmore 

11807 
C°Unty banking market, ranks second in size of the seven banks in the 
c> and is the smaller of the two banks in Geneva. (Banking 
as of June 30, 1972.) Consummation of the proposal herein 
neither alter existing banking competition nor significantly 
feet 
potential competition and would not result in an increase in 
concentration of banking resources in any relevant area. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
teSoum e s and prospects of applicant and Bank appear to be satisfactory 
c°nsistent with approval. In this regard, the Board notes that 
a 8ubatann 11 
l!-iaiiy equivalent offer to purchase shares has been made to 
Bank1
a 
minority shareholders. Although Applicant will assume debt 
trcd when Bank and the insurance agency activities were acquired, 
s that such debt may be adequately serviced without placing an 
U n d u e str 
ain on Bank. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and 
^ a 
o f .. 
ct*e communities involved, with respect to the acquisition of 
Bank> at 
e consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
Co*sUmrria i Qn of the transaction would be in the public interest and 
that the 
G acquisition of Bank should be approved, 
applicant operates a general insurance agency from Bank's 
Pteraiaes ± 
^ 
n Geneva, a community of approximately 2,400 persons. The 
Previously determined by regulation that the conduct of a 
Qurance agency in a community of less than 5,000 persons is 
related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)(ill)(a) ). The evidence 

.. 1808 
sh°ws that there are five competing insurance agencies. There is no 
evidence in the record indicating that consummation of the proposal 
°uld result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair competi-
n> conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, or other 
^ V e r s e effects on the public interest. It does appear that approval 
of tu 
application will assure the community of Geneva of the continued 
Nation of a convenient alternative source of insurance agency 
*vices% Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in ^ e record, the Board has determined that the public interest 
fa 
tora that the Board is required to consider regarding the continu-
°f Applicant's insurance agency activities are favorable and 
aPPlication 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications to acquire Bank 
and to continue to engage in insurance agency activities are approved 
f Of J.L e reasons summarized above. The acquisition of Bank shall not be 
nsnmiTtated ( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effec-
tive d a t e of this Order nor (b) later than three months after the 
®f£ect. 
ve date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause , 
y the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
to delegated authority. The determination as to the insurance 
nc] 
o f 
Pur 
° y activities is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
Snlation y and to the Board's authority to require such modifica-
tl°n or t-Lermination of the activities of a holding company or any of 

. 1809 
-4-
its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
116 Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors 
effective May 22, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B, Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSEAl] 
U 8 f° r t h t s &ctlotl** Chairman Burns and Governors Sheehan and 
set f0rth
 V o t J n 8 against this action: Governor Brimmer for the reasons 
CBT c 
l n t h e D i 8 S f e n t i ng Statement in the matter of the application 
^eSist 
0 r p o r a ti°n to acquire General Discount- Corporation (38 Federal 
G°Vern
er 
(Order effective May 14, 1973)). Absent and not voting: 
Mitchell and Daane. 

1810 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/22/73 
NEW ENGLAND MERCHANTS COMPANY, IMC. 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
New England Merchants Company, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, 
a banlc holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of Hancock 
Bank and Trust Company, Quincy, Massachusetts ("Hancock Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in Light of the factors set forth in g 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(C)). 
Applicant controls one banlc^ with deposits of approximately 
^ 
million, representing 7.2 per cent of the total deposits in 
°mmercial banks in Massachusetts, and is the fifth largest banking 
gani2ation in the State. 
The acquisition of Hancock Bank 
($66 
million in deposits) would increase Applicant's control of 
at°wids deposits by .6 percentage points, and its ranking among 
Maasarh 
<-nusetts banking organizations would not change. 
IT"*"— 
^PPli ° r d e r o f M a y 3> 1 9 7 3 
F e d e r a l Register 12259), the Board approved 
ant's acquisition of the successor by merger to The Barnstable County 
°nal Bank of Hyannis, Hyannis, Massachusetts ("Barnstable Bank"). 
2/ y 
t0 r
n: e 3 s otherwise noted,banking data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted 
6 C t hol-ding company formations and acquisitions through March 31, 

: i 8 i i 
- 2 -
Applicant1s existing subsidiary bank, New England Merchants 
National Bank ("Merchants Bank"), has its home office in Suffolk County 
3/ 
atld is the fourth largest commercial bank in the Boston banking market,-
Controlling approximately 10 per cent of market deposits. Hancock Bank 
is the largest independent bank with its home office in Norfolk County, 
anci is the thirteenth largest commercial bank in the Boston banking 
Market, controlling .3 per cent of market deposits. Although Applicant's 
acquisition of Hancock Bank would increase its share of market deposits 
only .8 percentage points, it would aggravate the high level of 
j 
eP°sit concentration in the market (the five largest banking organiza-
U o n s Presently control in excess of 80 per cent of market deposits). 
Merchants Bank and Hancock Bank are restricted by Massachusetts banking 
lav; from branching outside of their home office counties; however, 
th 
G main offices of each bank are located only eight miles apart and 
the 
e y have several branches in close proximity to one another. It appears 
a t Merchants Bank derives a significant dollar volume of loans and 
p°sit3 from Hancock Bank's primary service area. One branch of 
C h a n t s Bank derives more than 35 per cent of its Individual Partnership 
arid On 
corporations ("IPC") demand deposits and more than 26 per cent of its 
loatlg 
trom Hancock Bank's primary service area, and another branch of 
ants Bank derives more than 26 per cent of its IPC demand deposits 
and m °re than 44 per cent of its loans from Hancock Bank's primary 
Hetr0 
?°ston banking market is approximated by the Boston Standard 
and polftan Statistical Area which encompasses all of Suffolk County 
°rtions of Essex, Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth Counties. 

1812 
-3-
Setvice area. Although loans and deposits derived from Hancock Bank's 
Primary service area represent a relatively small percentage of 
^erchants Bank's total loans and deposits, they represent, respectively, 
aPproximately 78 and 58 per cent of the total loans and deposit dollar 
v°lutne that Hancock Bank derives from its own primary service area. 
Further, Hancock Bank derives approximately 5 per cent of its total 
and deposits from Merchants Bank's home office county. On the 
^asis of these and other facts of record, the Board concludes that 
i^nificant e x i s t i n g competition would be eliminated upon consummation 
this proposal. 
Hancock Bank is the third largest remaining independent bank 
in thp t> 
Boston banking market and the largest remaining independent 
bank h 
having its home office in Norfolk County. Applicant's acquisition 
Hancock Bank would eliminate one of the more desirable remaining 
dePendent banks located in the Boston banking market, with the ability 
to 
anch throughout Norfolk County, as a possible means of entry for 
anfcing organization not presently represented in the Boston banking 
tn9tiCet 
• Applicant's acquisition of Hancock Bank would also aggravate 
the hi u 
8h level of deposit concentration presently existing in the Boston 
§ market. It appears that Applicant could enter Norfolk County 
ei-ther b 
°y acquiring one of the smaller remaining independent banks 
l°cated tu 
<-nerem or by establishing a de novo bank. It is the Board s 
jucig^ 
that consummation of the proposal would have a significantly 
effect on existing and potential competition. 

1813 
-2-
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, Barnstable 
Bank» and Merchants Bank are satisfactory, particularly in view of Appli-
Cant's plans to increase Merchants Bank's capital in the near future. The 
fir*ancial and managerial resources and future prospects of Hancock Bank 
a r e generally satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. 
CJ 
n c e Applicant proposed to increase Hancock Bank's capital upon approval 
this application, banking factors lend some weight toward approval of 
the? 
• application; however, such factors do not outweigh the aforementioned 
a.K 
e r s e effects on competition. In this regard, it is noted that although 
au increase in Hancock Bank's capital would be desirable, its managerial 
and f-jr, 
nancial resources are sound and its future prospects as a viable com-
Petjf. 
r in Norfolk County and the Boston market, either as an independent 
^ank or 
1 as a member of a holding company system, are good. 
Applicant proposes to offer, through Hancock Bank, new and improved 
Ces> including trust, international banking, equipment leasing, and 
P G c iali 2 e d creciit: advisory services. However, it appears that such services 
e Presently conveniently available to the public in the area served by 
c k Bank. Therefore, considerations relating to the convenience and 
nee<ls of the communities to be served do not outweigh the adverse effects 
this 
^oposal would have cn competition in the Boston banking market. It 
is 
e Sard's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
be i n the public interest and this application should be denied. 

-5-
1814 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for the 
easons summarized above. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 22, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Iseal] 
4/ 
°tin—r 
Bucu ® 
this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
r* Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

, 1815 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYStEM 
5/22/73* 8 
D. H. BALDWIN COMPAQ 
Determination Regarding "Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
provides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect to 
^banking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amendments 
0f the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding Com-
P a n y Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 1970" 
^ 
continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, in non-
inking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on June 30, 
1 9 6 8 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of activities 
Carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company or subsidiary, 
pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on or before June 30, 
» of another company engaged in such activities at the time of the 
^uisition), and has been continuously engaged in since June 30, 1968 
Such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
Of Q 
°vetnors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
^eges if? having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
Gr^ines that such action is necessary to prevent an undue concentration 
Resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, 
Unsound banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a 
batlk w-TM 
ctl assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
the 
a r d is required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

_ 1 8 1 ( > 
- 2 -
Notice of the Board's proposed review of the grandfather 
PrlVileSes of D. H. Baldwin Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, and an opportunity 
interested persons to submit comments and views or request a hearing, 
has be*n given (37 F.R. 22414 and 25204). The time for filing comments, 
» ana requests has expired, and all those received have been con-
by the Board in light of the factors set forth in § 4(a)(2) of 
the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following 
findinR * D. H. Baldwin Company ("Registrant"), Cincinnati, Ohio, 
^ 
a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of the 
Amendments to the Act, by virtue of Registrant's indirect ownership 
of almos 
°st all of the voting shares of Central Hank and Trust Company 
('BankM) 
n 
» uenver, Colorado (assets of about $279 million, as of 
-*-» 1970). Bank, control of which was acquired by Registrant 
» 1968, had total deposits of approximately $300 million as of 
1972, representing about 9 per cent of the total deposits in 
oanks in the Denver banking market, and is the fourth largest 
-i 
n fcbat market. 
b*came 
in 
30 
ank's management, financial condition, and prospects are 
a 
s satisfactory. During the course of its review of the grand-
P^ivii 
J-eges of Registrant, the Board noted with concern that Bank 
nt*ined c 
at. 
orrespondent balances with banks designated by Registrant and 
" h i c h Reniot 
Cn„ 
faiscrant 
maintained lines of credit. In view of the Board's 
e t n in thi 
tt 
area, Registrant has discontinued the practice and committed 
•Hll t 0 
refGaining from such practice, in the future. 

_ 1817 
-3-
Registrant, a diversified corporation with about $619 million 
in 
n assets as of December 31, 1970, is engaged (either directly or through 
Subsidiaries) in three principal areas of activity, namely, (1) the 
^nufacture and sale of musical instruments; (2) manufacture and sale 
electronic components; and (3) providing financial services. 
Registrant has been engaged in the music business for over 
100 years and has six subsidiaries engaged in various facets of the musical 
instrument business. Baldwin Piano and Organ Company, headquartered in 
incxnnati, is engaged in the manufacture, sale, and sales financing of 
^slcal instruments and related accessories. The Baldwin Piano Company 
(Can 
ada) Ltd., headquartered in Toronto, purchases musical instruments 
manuf-actured by other subsidiaries of Registrant and sells such instruments 
thr 
0ll3h independent dealers located in principal cities throughout Canada. 
111 Export Corporation, headquartered in Cincinnati, sells musical 
nst^'iments in the Western Hemisphere outside the United States. C. Bech-
Stp-f 
n pianofortefabrik, A.G., West 3erlin, Germany (about 74 per cent of 
vhoSe , 
shares are owned by Registrant) manufactures pianos in West Germany 
for „ , 
a l e throughout the world with Europe as its principal market. Canyon 
t 
' inc., Cincinnati, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Registrant, is engaged 
in the 
Production and sale of sheet music. Fabricantes Tecnico, S.A., a 
* owned subsidiary located in Juarez, Mexico, is engaged in the manu-
and assembly 
of components for use in Baldvjin pianos and organs. 
d 
, 
li* Baldwin Trust, established by Registrant in December 1967, assists 
sale of the musical instruments manufactured by Registrant. The 

_ 1818 
-4-
s°le function of the trust is to hold title to and finance dealer con-
signment inventory. Registrant's net sales from the musical instrument 
business amounted to about $47 million in 1971, representing about 5 per 
cei*t of the total sales of the musical instrument industry in the United 
States. Registrant's piano sales that year amounted to about 19 per cent 
0f ^ e total sales by members of the National Piano Manufacturers Association, 
v?bleh accounts for 90 per cent of the piano and piano parts sales in the 
UnJ-ted States. Registrant's organ sales (for 1971) amounted to about 8 
P e r Cent or the sales in the United States by members of the National 
delation of Electronic Organ Manufacturers. All of Registrant's activities 
bating to the musical instrument business were commenced prior to June 30, 
1968» have been engaged in continuously since that date, and appear to be 
eligible f o r r e t e n t i o n o n the basis of grandfather privileges. 
The activities of Registrant relating to electronics are con-
C t e d through subsidiaries with total assets of about $14 million as 
Of T) 
Member 31, 1970. Total sales from the subsidiaries engaged in the 
business amounted to about $5 million in 1971. Baldwin 
ecttonics, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary acquired by Registrant in 
April 1958, and headquartered in Little Rock, Arkansas, is engaged in 
* Manufacture and sale of photoelectric shaft position encoders for 
gov^r 
-i 
nitlent and civilian uses; electronic components for use primarily in 
8istrant's electronic organs and amplifiers; and rocket motors. Baldwin 
^lectr °nics is also engaged in research, development, and manufacturing 
of oth 
e r electronic ordnance and timing devices. Quantrol Electronics, 

1819 
-5-
Xnc. 
'» a wholly-owned subsidiary of Baldwin Electronics, was formed in June, 
1968 f 
> r°r the purpose of manufacturing photoelectric and photovoltaic devices 
Mother o u 
subsidiary of Baldwin Electronics, Electron Emission Systems, Inc., 
Tucso 
n» Arizona, was formed in November, 1969, and engages in research, 
devei0 
^ P^ent, manufacture and sale of nuclear hardened electronics and 
grated vacuum circuits. Since Electron Emission Systems was formed 
after j 
U n e 30» 1968, it is not entitled to indefinite grandfather benefits, 
^ must ^ j. 
°e disposed of by December 31, 1980. Siliconix Incorporated, head-
qUartered in Santa Clara, California (about 28 per cent of whose shares 
held h 
by Registrant) was formed in 1962 and is engaged in the design, 
6vel0 
'ent, manufacture and sale of specialty semiconductor components 
and int egrated circuits. Siliconix has three wholly-owned subsidiaries 
respectively, in the United Kingdom, Germany, and France. Sili-
COlU* also h 
nas direct or indirect interests in three other electronics cora-
l s : x 
•p.T. Corporation of California, and Ledel Semiconductor, Inc., 
* corporation which owns 100 per cent of the stock of Ledel 
^condu 
nctor (H.K.), Ltd., a Hong Kong corporation. 
Registrant has committed itself to divestment of its electronics 
Usi*eS8 ( 
0 t related to the music business) w i t h reasonable speed and 
atiy event K « 
*ff
 
y D e c ember 31, 1980. Registrant has already initiated 
<*t. t o , 
Er^ 
e ? t its interests in Quantrol Electronics and Electron 
*t8
 
S S y s t e m s* 
It* view of the fact that Registrant has committed 
to fl 
^ 
vestiture of its electronic interests at a date earlier than 
no * 
requJ-red under an order for termination of grandfather privileges, 
Her, 
nalysis of the grandfather privileges with respect to the 
nsiness is deemed necessary. 

-6-
1820 
Registrant's financially related activities arc conducted 
kr°ugh several nonbank subsidiaries. The Baldwin Company, Cincinnati, 
II 
* 0 ("Baldwin"), was originally formed in 1966 as a real estate holding 
0lnPany, but its only significant present activity appears to be the 
°n8 term lease of a warehouse to the Kroger Company. D. 2. Pedlow & 
0TnPany, Cincinnati, Ohio ("Pedlow"), was acquired pursuant to a contract 
ntered into prior to June 30, 1968, to engage in various types of 
dancing transactions but, as of December 31, 1971, its lending activities 
solely of making home improvement loans, mainly for kitchen re-
ftodeii-. 
ng and swimming pools, where a second mortgage is taken as security. 
^easing Corp. ("Uobro"), was organized by principals of Registrant 
in 
^Pril, 1966, for the purpose of leasing buildings and equipment to a 
piano actions manufacturer. The buildings have been sold and the company 
it 
act* 
c°nti - ues to engage in the leasing of machinery to a manufacturer of piano 
0tls* Since the activities of Baldwin, Pedlow, and I-Jobro were engaged 
Prior to June 30, 1968, Registrant may continue such activities, but 
^termination is not authority to enter into any new activities that 
n°t engaged in on June 30, 1968, and continuously thereafter, nor any 
a c u v i y cnat is not the subject of this determination. 
Baldwin-Central, Inc., is a holding company owning almost all the 
°Utsta 
nS shares of Bank. Through Baldwin-Central, Inc., Registrant 
acquireri _ 
after June 30, 1968, a convertible bond of National Farmer Union 
C e Corporation, ("NFUSC"), Denver, Colorado, which bond is convertible 
into Vom 
shares of that company. If the bond is converted, Baldwin^Central 

_ 1821 
-7-
° U l d h o l d about 90 per cent of the voting shares of NFUSC. NFUSC and 
its fivo 
u 
subsidiaries are engaged in the underwriting of various types 
insurance, all noncredit related. Since Registrant's interest in NFUSC 
aa Squired after June 30, 1968, indefinite grandfather benefits are not 
ailable with respect to NFUSC or its subsidiaries, and Registrant must 
reduce -t 
J-cs interest in NFUSC to less than 5 per cent of the outstanding 
tinS shares by December 31, 1980. Baldwin<-Central also holds 99 per 
Cent of f U 
cne voting shares of Empire Savings and Loan Association ("Empire"), 
DenVer 
r i 
» Colorado ($252 million in assets, as of December 31, 1971). The 
Merest i 
r 
in Empire was acquired after June 30, 1968, and must be reduced 
t0 less th 
^ 
<-nan 5 per cent of the outstanding voting shares by December 31, 
Registrant (through Baldwin Piano & Organ Company) acquired about 
Per cent of the shares of Anchor Savings and Loan Association ("Anchor"), 
y» Kansas ($122 million in assets, as of September 30, 1971) in 
er» 1971, in apparent violation of the Bank Holding Company Act 
81tlCe such 
n acquisition took place without the prior approval of the Board. 
the d 
ay following that acquisition, Registrant sold about 62 per cent 
s^ares to the public while continuing to hold about 34 per cent 
n0n.Vo 
1/ 
°ting shares. 
Registrant has entered into an agreement for 
V m b 
saie nf -i. 
the remaining shares that it holds in the saving and loan 
and no Board action with resoect to the divestment of Anchor 
S t o be necessary at this time. Central Bank Building Corporation, 
°uned subsidiary of Bank, is engaged in holding the premises 
p*ior 
states that the shares In Anchor were converted to non-voting 
their acquisition by Registrant. 

1822 
-8-
°Ccnpied by Bank. The activities of this subsidiary appear to be per-
missible, on the basis of 5 4(c)(1)(A) of the Act, and no grandfather 
kGnefi.ts are needed for Registrant to continue such activities. 
On the basis of the foregoing and all the facts before the Board, 
it 
aPpears that the volume, scope, and nature of the activities of 
GEistrant and its grandfathered subsidiaries do not demonstrate an undue 
ncentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts 
interest, nor unsound banking practices. 
There anpears to be no reason to require Registrant to terminate 
its grandfather interests. It is the Board's judgment that, at this time, 
rmination of the grandfather privileges of Registrant is not necessary 
°rder to prevent an undue concentration of resources, decreased or 
Unfair „ 
competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 
Ho 
that 
Vever . i , 
> this determination is not authority to enter into any activity 
W a s n°t engaged in on June 30, 1968, and continuously thereafter, 
n°r am, 
y activity that is not the subject of this determination. 
A significant alteration in the nature or extension of Registrant's 
ivities or a change in location thereof (significantly different from 
de 
Scribed in this determination) will be cause for a re-evaluation 
by the n 
J3°ard of Registrant's activities under the provisions of 8 4(a)(2) 
A c t, that is, whenever the alteration or change is such that the 
tnds that a termination of the grandfather privileges is necessary 
to Ptevp 
ent an undue concentration of resources or any of the other evils 
c h the Act is directed. No merger, consolidation, acquisition of 
assets °ther than in the ordinary course of business, nor acquisition of 
0f the 

1823 
-9-
atly interest in a going concern, to which the Registrant or any nonbank 
Subsidiary thereof is a party, may be consummated without prior approval 
of 
the Board. Further, the provision of any credit, property, or service 
by the Registrant or any subsidiary thereof shall not be subject to any 
c°nditi0n which, if imposed by a bank, would constitute an unlawful tie-in 
arrangement under § 106 of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970, 
The determination herein does not preclude a later review by 
Board of Registrant's nonbank activities and a future determination 
y t h e Board in favor of termination of grandfather benefits of Registrant, 
determination herein is subject to the Board's authority to require 
°dification o r termination of the activities of Registrant or any of 
^embanking subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure com-
Pliail e with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
dCions and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof. 
2/ 
« 
By determination of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 14, 
19)3.17 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretarv of the Board 
tSEAL] 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Sheehan and 
n°t v * v°ting against this action: Governor Brimmer. Absent and 
il 
Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
r d action was taken before Governor Holland became a Board Member. 

_ 1 8 2 4 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I favor a termination of the grandfather privileges of the D. H. 
®aldwin Company with respect to the musical instrument business. On this 
basis> under the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of the Act, D. H. Baldwin would 
have t-
c&n years to divest itself of its musical instrument manufacturing 
Cl-ivities. In my view, the company should decide now whether it wants 
to K 
e a bank holding company, and thus limit itself to activities that 
Board has determined to be closely related to banking, or whether it 
u 
c o be in the manufacturing business, in which event, it should cease 
to K 
G a bank holding company. 
The history of the Bank Holding Company Act makes it abundantly 
that Congress wanted the business of banking to be separate from other 
mercial enterprises in view of the abuses that may arise as a result 
of 
c h a combination. The evidence before the Board with respect to the 
*otivit:, 
•--Les of D. II. Baldwin supports the wisdom of that decision. As 
n°ted i 
111 the Board's statement, D. H. Baldwin Company has followed the 
Pfact-i 
C e of requiring its subsidiary bank to maintain correspondent balances 
a n k s that lend to D. H. Baldwin and its other subsidiaries. It seems 
to ^ th 
nat this practice is indicative of an attitude on the part of D. H. 
Bal(Jwin . 
c o use the resources of its subsidiary bank to further its 
>onb 
activities at the possible expense of its banking subsidiary. 
While Registrant has committed itself to refraining from 
th* Pra tice of having its bank maintain compensating balances in the 
fUtu*e, th 
continued involvement of Registrant in the musical instrument 

1 8 ^ 5 
-2-
business presents Registrant with the opportunity to misuse its relationship 
Bank through other means that may be of detriment to the financial 
Edition of Bank. In order to prevent this possibility, I would require 
^e8lstrant to divest itself of the musical instrument, as well as the 
e^ectronics,manufacturing business. In the alternative, Registrant could 
°ntinue such activities, but the price for doing so would be to cease 
a bank holding company. In my view, such a decision is more in 
ePlng with the purposes and intent of the Act than is the majority's 
Vision. 
J u n e H , 1973. 
