MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 29, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Letter to foreign-owned banking 
institutions in the United States 
requesting their cooperation with 
respect to credit restraint measures. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, May 29, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, 
Office of the Executive Director 
Mr. Layton, Director of Equal Employment 
Opportunity 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 

% 
1886 
5/29/73 
-2-
Mr. Henry, Assistant Adviser, 
Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, 
Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, 
Division of Supervision 
Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion of Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares 
of The First National Bank of Maitland, Maitland, Florida, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southeast 
banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Peoples Bank 
Venice, Venice, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflect-
ing this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in a memorandum of May 24, 1973, the Board unanimously 
SBfiroved transfers of territory from the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
head office zone to the zones of the Pittsburgh and Cincinnati Branches. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Cleveland Reserve Bank is attached as 
jtemjsfo. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 

, 1 8 8 7 
5/29/73 
-3-
Congressional testimony. Governor Daane was scheduled to testify 
on May 30, 1973, before the Subcommittee on International Finance and 
Resources of the Senate Finance Committee. A draft statement had been 
distributed, containing revisions from an earlier version upon which 
the Board members had been requested to give preliminary comments. 
Discussion at today's meeting included suggestions for a number 
of changes in tone and emphasis. At the conclusion of the discussion it 
was understood that the statement would be presented in a final form 
satisfactory to Governor Daane. (A copy of the statement in the form 
in which it was presented has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Southeast Banking Corporation. In a memorandum of May 21, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Sec-
tion recommended denial of the application of Southeast Banking Corpora-
tion, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Deland State Bank, Deland, 
Florida. 
The Board unanimously denied the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
.Item No. 4. 
Currency depository. On April 19, 1973, the Board discussed the 
request of the Minister of Finance of Liberia that the Federal Reserve 
System establish a currency depository in Liberia to facilitate the 
Management of U.S. currency, which circulates as the official currency 
o f Liberia. Although the Board was inclined to disapprove the request, 

; 1888 
5/29/73 
-4-
action was deferred pending the obtaining of guidance from the State 
and Treasury Departments. In a memorandum of May 25 the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations indicated that the response of the 
Treasury Department had been unfavorable, while that of the State 
Department was favorable to the proposal. The Division expressed the 
view that no new information had been presented that would provide a 
reason for the Board to depart from its earlier position. Attached 
was a draft of letter to the Minister of Finance, to be signed by 
Governor Brimmer, that would decline the request but offer technical 
assistance. 
After discussion the letter was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that the State Department would be consulted regarding the 
desirability of postponing transmittal of the letter until after the 
forthcoming visit of the President of Liberia to the United States. A 
copy of the letter as subsequently transmitted is attached as Item No. 5. 
Foreign banking offices. Pursuant to the discussion at the 
meeting on May 24, 1973, the Division of International Finance had 
Submitted, with a memorandum of May 25, 1973, two alternative drafts 
a letter requesting the cooperation of agencies, branches, invest-
ment companies, and subsidiaries of foreign banks with respect to the 
credit restraint measures adopted by the Board on May 16, 1973. The 
first alternative would request that such institutions maintain a 
marginal reserve of 3 per cent against increases in both large certificates 

>r 
jLy^i* 
I 
5/29/73 
-5-
of deposit and Euro-dollar borrowings. This request would parallel 
the request that had been made for the cooperation of large nonmember 
banks. The second alternative would request that the group of foreign 
institutions maintain a reserve of 8 per cent against increases in 
Euro-dollar borrowings, and a reserve of 3 per cent against increases 
in large CD's, etc. This request would parallel the treatment of 
member banks under the recent monetary policy actions. 
Discussion at today's meeting confirmed the preference expressed 
on May 24 for a reserve deposit approach rather than a guideline approach, 
which had also been considered. It was observed that the guideline 
approach had implications of structural reforms that should be studied 
by 
the Congress if they were to be adopted. A predominant view developed 
l n favor of requesting an 8 per cent reserve deposit on increases in 
Euro-dollar borrowings, plus a 3 per cent reserve deposit on increases 
lrt large CD's and other instruments covered by the action taken on 
M ay 16 with respect to member banks. Governor Daane joined the majority 
l n this choice with reservations, since he preferred the alternative 
fchat would have requested lower reserve deposits against increases in 
^uro-dollar borrowings. There was agreement with a suggestion that the 
request with respect to Euro-dollar borrowings be extended to increases 
l n all funds obtained from abroad. A number of changes were made in 
the draft letter. 

;•; .. 1830 
5/29/73 
-6-
Further discussion dealt with procedural questions such as 
pre-notification of other Federal bank supervisory authorities, the 
State Department, and appropriate State bank supervisors. The sending 
of the letter, after these courtesies had been observed, was approved 
unanimously. 
(A copy of the letter in the form in which it was sub-
sequently transmitted is attached to the minutes of June 1, 1973.) 
Civil Rights Commission inquiry. With a memorandum of May 24, 
1973, the staff submitted a draft response to an inquiry from the U.S. 
Commission on Civil Rights regarding the Board's efforts in the area 
of enforcement of civil rights legislation. The memorandum pointed 
out that the proposed response would make public two statements of 
Position by the Board that heretofore had been contained only in unpub-
lished material: 
(1) that any requirement placed on member banks to 
maintain racial data on loan applicants should be accompanied by an 
effective method of analysis of those data; and (2) that the Board 
supports efforts to expand coverage of Federal law to prevent discrim-
inatory credit practices against women. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement on deletion 
a passage regarding reports from the Department of Housing and Urban 
development, the letter was approved unanimously in the form attached 
a s Item No. 6. 
Central Bancorp. With a memorandum of May 23, 1973, the Legal 
division submitted a draft of order reflecting the Board's denial, on 

1831 
5/29/73 
-7-
March 1, 1973, of the application of Central Bancorp, Inc., Miami, 
Florida, to acquire shares of Central National Bank of Miami. The 
Division of Research and Statistics, in a memorandum of May 22, sug-
gested that in addition to the adverse financial and managerial circum-
stances upon which the Board's denial rested, the order cite reimbursements 
to insiders of expenses for acquiring and holding the bank's stock, which 
raised questions whether equivalent offers had been made to all stock-
holders. A passage proposed for insertion in the order for that purpose 
was attached, which in effect set forth a statement of policy regarding 
the permissibility of such reimbursements. 
Discussion developed agreement that the issuance of such a 
policy statement might preferably be considered separately or in con-
nection with a future application. However, there was also agreement 
uPon insertion in the order of a caveat that the rationale stated for 
the Board's denial should not be construed as approval of other aspects 
the proposed transaction. 
The Board authorized issuance of the order in the form attached 
a s Item No. 7. 
Fidelity Corporation. In a memorandum of May 21, 1973, the 
division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended approval in part and denial in part of the application of 
Fidelity Corporation of Pennsylvania, Rosemont, Pennsylvania, to acquire 
shares, by statutory merger into a subsidiary of Fidelity Corporation, 

5/29/73 
-8-
of Local Finance Corporation, Providence, Rhode Island. The recommended 
denial applied to the sale and underwriting of level coverage insurance 
in connection with instalment loans, which activities did not comply 
with the provisions of Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies. 
In a memorandum of May 25 the Legal Division indicated that so 
far as was known, the sale and underwriting of level term credit life 
insurance in connection with instalment loans had been permitted by the 
Board in only one previous instance, namely, the acquisition by Indus-
trial National Corporation, Providence, Rhode Island, of Southern 
Discount Company, Atlanta, Georgia. If the Board agreed with the staff 
recommendation with respect to Fidelity Corporation, the staff proposed 
to apprise Industrial National Corporation of that decision and to work 
°ut a timetable for the termination by that organization of the general 
sale of level term insurance in connection with its declining term 
loans. The memorandum noted also that a letter had been received in 
connection with the Fidelity Corporation application from Mr. James E. 
Simonton, Liverpool, New York, regarding his complaints, pending before 
Mew Jersey authorities, alleging that Local Finance Corporation had 
Pursued a policy of racial discrimination in the extension of consumer 
credit. A draft letter attached to the memorandum reflected the type 
response the Division believed should be made to Mr. Simonton. 
The Board unanimously approved in part and denied in part, 
l n the terms recommended by the staff, the application of Fidelity 

5/29/73 
-9-
Corporation of Pennsylvania and authorized issuance of an order reflect-
ing that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 8. The letter to 
Mr, Simonton was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 9. 
It was understood that a letter would be sent to Industrial National 
Corporation regarding discontinuance of its sale of level term credit 
life insurance. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

. 1894 
Item No. 1 
5/29/73-
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank holding 
Coi&pany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
c 
°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The First National 
Batlk of Ma it land, Maitland, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
S o n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
l i 8 h t o f 
factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 21 banks with aggregate deposits of $1.3 billion, 
tgpj. 
Anting 7.9 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits held by 
Florid 
a a banks, and is the largest banking organization in the State. (All 
n8 data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect holding company formations 
d acquisitions approved through April 30, 1973.) The acquisition of Bank 
(dep0<3. 
its of $38.5 million) would increase Applicant's control of commercial 
nk deposits in Florida by two-tenths of one percentage point and its rank-
ing 4 
1 J 
n the State would be unchanged.— 
Bank, serving several residential communities to the north of 
°natld 
2/ 
is the seventh largest of 35 banks in the Orlando banking market 
of .fPPlicant 
has filed separate applications to acquire 80 per cent or more 
Venic* voting shares of Deland State Bank, Deland, and Peoples Bank of Venice, 
aha^0* koth in Florida. Affiliation of both banks would increase Applicant's 
tta S t° f the total Florida commercial bank deposits to 8.3 per cent, while 
competitive position would remain unaltered. 
8°uth 6 ° r l a n c i o banking market is approximated by Orange County and the
e rn portion of Seminole County.

1895 
- 2 -
and controls 3.7 per cent of total commercial deposits therein; the six 
largest banks are all subsidiaries of holding companies and a total of eight 
^Iti-bank holding companies (including Applicant) are represented. The 
Presence of these larger banks in the Orlando market makes it unlikely that 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank could lead to Applicant gaining a dominant 
p0sition in the market. Applicant's only banking subsidiary in the market 
^Southeast National5') , located in the business district of Orlando, has 
^Posits of $14.5 million, representing 1.4 per cent of market deposits, 
and it appears that no significant direct competition exists between it and 
Bank. Furthermore, the likelihood of significant future competition develop-
in8 between Southeast National and Bank is remote in view of the number and 
S i 2 e of intervening banks, the traffic congestion in downtown Orlando, and 
Relatively small size cf the two banks. Applicant's nearest subsidiary 
°utside the Orlando banking market is located 25 miles north of Bank and it 
aPpears that no significant existing competition would be eliminated between 
and this or any other subsidiary of Applicant. 
One of Applicant's non-banking subsidiaries, Southeast Mortgage 
CoinPany, Miami 
( " C o m p a n y " ) , maintains an office in Orlando. From the facts 
of r 
record, it appears that Bank and Company are not significant competitors 
that the removal of Bank as a competitor to Company through approval of 
3 / ^ r -
as 
addition to Company, 37 mortgage companies and 6 savings and loan 
ta®°ciations maintain offices in the Orlando banking market. Residential 
e S M 8 a g e s o r i8 i n ated by Company accounted for less than 2 per cent of the 
mated total residential mortgages originated in the Orlando SMSA. Bank 
C o
e s not make FHA or VA mortgage, loans and it had less than $250,000 in 
nventional residential mortgage loans outstanding on December 31, 1972. 

18136 
-3-
^is application will not significantly improve Company's ability to compete 
f°r the origination or servicing of mortgage loans in the Orlando area. 
The financial condition of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and 
Bank are considered to be satisfactory in view of recent injections of equity 
CaPital. Applicant's management is considered good while management of Eank 
is satisfactory. Future prospects for all are favorable. Applicant will 
assist Bank in providing real estate financing and in recruiting and training 
n e w management personnel. Applicant also intends to increase the interest 
on regular savings accounts. Convenience and needs factors are con-
tent with and lend some support toward approval of the application. It 
is t 
8 ^ e Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
" e r e s t and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
e a s° n s summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) before 
the 
thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) 
a t e r than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
o f Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
A/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 29, 1973 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
S
h ^ n g f o r this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
ian and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

Item No. 2 
5/29/73-
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
' 
' 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
th® Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)) to 
acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Peoples Bank of Venice, 
V i c e , Florida ("Peoples Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
* 3(b) 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
°f 
factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 21 banks with aggregate deposits of $1.3 billion, 
^Presenting 7.9 per cent of the total bank deposits held by Florida commercial 
b a n ks, and is the largest banking organization in the State. 
(All banking 
d a t a are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect holding company formations and acqui-
Sitions approved through April 30, 1973.) The acquisition of Peoples Bank 
(d 
sP°sits of $13.3 million) would increase Applicant's control of commercial 
deposits in Florida by one-tenth of one percentage point. 
Peoples Bank is the smallest of three banks in the southern portion 
°f Sarasota County"^ and holds 13.4 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
th 
e r e ln. 
T h e t W Q o t h e r b a n k s i n t h e market each control over 40 per cent of 
^^he~banking market is approximated by the southern half of Sarasota County. 

1898 
•2-
total market deposits and one is affiliated with the seventh largest banking 
Or8anization in Florida. This acquisition would represent Applicant's initial 
ent*y into the defined market area as well as into Sarasota County. Applicant's 
s u b s i d i a r y bank nearest to Peoples 3ank is approximately thirty miles away. 
In view of, among other things, the distances between Peoples Bank and each 
0f Applicant's present subsidiaries and the prohibition against branch banking 
in Florida, the B o a r d concludes that consummation of this proposal would neither 
Eliminate existing nor potential competition. It appears that affiliation with 
applicant will increase the ability of Peoples Bank to compete with the two 
lar8er banks in the relevant market without having an undue adverse effect on 
either one. 
The financial condition and management of Applicant and its subsidiary 
banks are considered to be satisfactory in view of Applicant's recent injection 
0f additional equity capital into several of its subsidiaries; prospects for 
ttle group are favorable. The financial condition and managerial resources of 
Pe°Ples Bank are considered to be satisfactory and its future prospects also 
aPpear favorable. Applicant will assist its proposed subsidiary in providing 
W r8e commercial and real estate financing, in establishing a trust department 
Sri ? 
» generally, in improving the operations of Peoples Bank. Considerations 
r e^tin g t o t h e c o n v e n i e n c e a nd needs of the communities to be served are 
C°nslstent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
Pr°Posed transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
^°uld be approved. 

1893 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 29, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N O R 5 
• r THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
5/29/73-
. 1900 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
Mr. Willis J. Winn 
President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Cleveland, Ohio 44101 
Mr. Winn: 
Referring to your letter of May 16, 1973, the Board of 
Governors approves the transfer of the three western Ohio counties of 
Auglaize, Mercer and Shelby from the Head Office territory to that of 
the Cincinnati Branch and the transfer of the three eastern Ohio 
counties of Belmont, Jefferson, and Monroe from the Head Office ter-
ritory to that of the Pittsburgh Branch. 
Please notify the Board when the effective date of the 
change is determined. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

Item No. 4 
5/29/73-
19(51 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Floridas a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)) 
to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Deland State Bank, 
Delands Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Person.s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
hfc Board has considered the application and ail comments received in light 
°f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(c)). 
Applicant controls 21 banks with aggregate deposits of $1.3 
billion, representing 7.9 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
by Florida banks, and is the largest banking organization in the State, 
banking data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect holding company for-
^ i o n s and acquisitions approved through April 30, 1973.) The acquisition 
(deposits of $20.6 million) would increase Applicant's control of 
Co^ercial bank deposits in Florida by one-tenth of one percentage point and 
Cc°rdingiy would not result in a significant increase in concentration of * 
k^kino 
. 
1/ 
resources in the State." 
of ^PPHcant has filed separate applications to acquire 80 per cent or more 
i 
V o t ing shares of The First National Bank of Maitland, Maitland, and 
w0u1h 8 B a n k o f V e n i c e » Venice, both in Florida. Affiliation of both banks 
t0 g increase Applicant's share of the total Florida commercial bank deposi 
Per cent, while its State-wide competitive position would remain 

1902 
-2-
Banlc is the second largest ox five banks in the relevant banking 
Market (approximated by the western portion of Volusia County) and controls 
per cent of total market deposits. Applicant's existing subsidiary in 
market, Southeast Bank of Deltona ("Deltona Bank1'), with deposits of $11.1 
is the fourth largest bank therein holding 10 per cent of the total 
coir,mercial deposits. Approval of this application would increase Applicant's 
in the market from 10 per cent to 29 per cent and while this would not 
2/ 
Applicant a dominant position," it would substantially increase con-
juration 
in the market. 
(The three largest organizations control 80 per 
C e n t of market deposits; approval of this application would'increase the 
aiu°unt to 89 per cent.) 
The record reveals that there is no existing competition between 
and any of Applicant's subsidairies located outside the relevant bank-
market. As far as competition within the market is concerned, it appears 
the respective service areas of Bank and Deltona Bank (Applicant's 
do not presently overlap. However, there is evidence indicating 
ttlat both banks compete directly with respect to the residents of Orange City 
(poPulation of 1,772), a community without a banking facility that is located 
^Proximately midway between Bank and Deltona Bank. Consummation of the 
P°sal would eliminate this existing competition as well as the possibility 
Of 
strong competition developing between them in the future. 
The acquisition of Bank by a banking organization not presently 
Presented in the west Volusia County banking market could have a beneficial 
of 
nett~~Bank of Deland, N.A. (deposits of $50.4 million), a subsidiary 
Barnett Banks of Florida, is the largest organization in the market with 
p e r cent of market deposits. 

* 1903 
r. — 
Qffect on competition in this area. The Board therefore finds that it is 
likely that the proposed acquisition would have significant adverse effects 
0 n competition in the relevant banking market by increasing deposit concen-
tration and removing a banking alternative therein, by eliminating some 
listing competition and the possibility that strong future competition would 
develop between Bank and Applicant's Deltona subsidiary, and by foreclosing 
th 
G Possibility that Bank could serve as a potential means of entry by other 
inking organizations not presently represented in the market. Accordingly, 
c°mpetitive considerations require denial of this application unless the 
auticompetitive effects of the proposal are outweighed by benefits to the 
^ublic in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiaries are 
°nsidered to be satisfactory in view of recent injections of equity capital* 
atlagement is good and future prospects are favorable. The financial con-
and managerial resources of Bank are generally satisfactory and pros-
pects for its future growth are favorable. Thus, banking factors are con-
girt*. cent with approval but provide no significant support for such action. 
The banking needs of the relevant communities are presently being 
^et H 
°y the existing banks, and Applicant states that it does not propose to 
ntroduce any services that are not currently available. Consummation of 
th 
Proposed transaction, therefore, would have little impact on the con-
ience and needs of banking customers in the area. Accordingly, considera-
tio 
n s relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
do n o t outweigh the adverse competitive effects of the proposal. It is the 

1904 
-4-
judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not be 
the public interest and that the application should be denied. 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for the 
teasons summarized above. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 29, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
lSEAi,j 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
eehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

. 1905 
Item No. 5 
5/29/73 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N . O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
AN O R EW F. B R I M M E R 
M E M B E R O r THE 
B O A R D 
The Honorable Stephen Tolbert 
Minister of Finance 
Government of Liberia 
Monrovia, Liberia 
Dear Mr. Minister: 
I am writing in reply to your letters of September 19, 1972, 
and February 13, 1973, in which you propose establishment of a Federal 
Reserve currency depository in Monrovia. I regret the delay in re-
sponding to your proposal. This was due to the Board's desire to make 
a careful study of the rather complex ramifications of such a plan. 
The resulting review has made it clear that there is no legal 
authority for the establishment of an agency of a Federal Reserve Bank 
in a foreign country, except for the purpose of purchasing, selling, 
and collecting bills of exchange. There is, therefore, no authority 
for a Federal Reserve Bank to establish an agency in a foreign country 
for the express purpose of serving as a currency depository. 
The Board recognizes that maintenance of a suitable supply 
of currency in good condition is an important problem for Liberia. 
The Board has been briefed on the possible establishment of the 
National Bank of Liberia. Currencv facilities could be a natural 
part of the capabilities of that institution, and these might be ef-
fective in upgrading the currency in circulation. We would be glad 
to provide technical assistance in pursuit of this objective where 
V-Te can. Moreover, if you wish, we will open a deposit account for 
your new central bank at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the 
Purpose of making settlement for shipments of new currency to Monrovia 
and unfit currency back to New York. While the Federal Reserve has no 
*-e8al authority to bear shipping and insurance costs, we would be nappy 
t o help with technical assistance in this regard on the same basis as 
that provided by Mr. Emory McCorvey during his recent visit to Liberia. 
Sincerely yours 
(signed) 
Andrew F. Brimmer 

1906 
Item No. 6 
5/29/73-
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
Q r r i C I A U 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 31, 1973 
The Honorable Stephen Horn 
Vice Chairman 
United States Commission on Civil Rights 
Washington, D. C. 20425 
Dear Mr. Horn: 
I am writing in response to your letter of April 27, 
1973, in which you requested updated information on actions taken 
by the Federal Reserve System with respect to civil rights enforce-
ment. Attached to your letter was a list of several questions 
to which you requested the Board's response. 
The following responses, preceded in each instance by 
the relevant question, relate only to State chartered banks which 
are members of the System and over which the Board has primary 
Federal supervisory responsibility. As of December 31, 1972, 
there were 1,092 State member banks, representing about 8 per-
cent of the some 13,720 insured commercial banks in the Nation. 
State member banks hold about 20 per cent of the total deposits 
of insured commercial banks. 
"1. In the FRS's response to the Commission's questionnaire 
of July 1972, equal opportunity staffing patterns 
and functions were discussed. 
Have any major changes 
occurred in your equal opportunity structure or 
staffing pattern since that tinne? If so, please 
describe them in detail and indicate how they 
affect FRS's ability to fulfill its responsibility 
in the area of civil rights." 
There have been no major changes in the Board's Equal 
Opportunity structure or staffing pattern since July 1972. The 
Programs noted in the correspondence of July 28, 1972, are continuing 
and the present staff appears to be adequate t:o meet the goals of 
those programs. 

J.19C7 
To: Mr. Stephen Horn 
-2-
The Board in recognition of its responsibility in the 
area of Civil Rights has recently amended its Equal Employment 
Opportunity Regulations and procedures in order to conform where 
applicable to the Civil Service Commission's revised Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Regulations. These provisions now closely parallel 
procedures adopted by the Civil Rights Commission. 
«• 
"2. Since July 1972, have any complaints of discrimina-
tion in mortgage lending by member institutions 
been received by FRS? If so, please provide all 
relevant information on the disposition of such 
complaints." 
See comments under question 3. 
"3. Has the FRS referred any discrimination complaints 
to the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
(HUD)? If so, has any follow-up been conducted to 
determine the outcome of these complaints? Where 
this was done, please indicate the results. If no 
follow-up has been conducted, does FRS intend to 
follow-up referrals to HUD in the future?" 
Contacts made with each of the Reserve Banks indicate that 
there have been no complaints of discrimination in the area of 
loans for residential purposes received by the Banks. Pursuant to 
an agreement with the Department of Housing and Urban Development, 
the Equal Housing Lender poster which has been on display in the 
some 5,000 offices of State member banks for about one year, directs 
that complaints be made directly to that agency. After the posters 
were placed on display in May 1971, we asked HUD to inform the 
Board's staff of any such complaints involving a State member bank. 
None have been received from HUD to date. In the event a complaint 
is received, either through HUD or the Reserve Banks, it will be 
reviewed carefully and, if appropriate, an examiner will be asked 
to make a field investigation. 
"4. The Federal financial regulatory agencies have 
been contemplating the feasibility and desirability 
of requiring racial, ethnic, and property location 
data in connection with loan applications. 
a. Have any guidelines or regulations concerning 
data collection been developed and/or adopted 
by FRS? If so, what was the extent of the 
cooperation received from the other financial 
regulatory agencies on this subject? What 
other agencies assisted and what were the results 
of such cooperation? Describe the method used 
to collect, record and utilize this type of 
information. Please furnish the Commission with 
a copy of any relevant guidelines and/or regulations. 

To: Mr. Stephen Horn 
-3-
1 9 0 8 
b. 
If the data collection procedures have been 
implemented what action has FRS taken as a 
» 
result of the analysis of the raw data? 
c. If these guidelines or regulations have not 
been developed or adopted, please explain." 
The Board's staff has not developed, and the Board has 
not"adopted, guidelines or regulations concerning collection of 
racial, ethnic and property location data in connection with 
loan applications. As part of the Board's analysis of the effec-
tiveness of the present examiner questionnaire and poster-advertising 
guideline requirements, however, the Board's staff has initiated 
discussions with the other financial regulatory agencies on this 
subject. Members of the Board's staff attended the hearings held 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in December 1972, and 
are reviewing comments and testimony received at that hearing. The 
FDIC's proposed racial data keeping regulations were recently dis-
cussed by the Inter-Agency Coordinating Comittee (composed of 
representatives of the three Federal bank supervisory agencies and 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board) and it was agreed that any 
regulatory action would be taken on a joint basis to the extent 
possible. 
Although no complaints of discrimination in real estate 
lending by member banks have been received by the Federal Reserve 
System, and no final position has been reached by the Board with 
respect to the overall effectiveness of the Board's existing non-
discrimination efforts, the Board's staff has attempted to identify 
various methods that might be used to make enforcement more effective. 
In this regard, the Board's staff requested and was furnished 
census tract: data from the Bureau of Census for the purpose of 
investigating the feasibility of analyzing loan data to determine 
discriminatory lending patterns. Preliminary indications are that 
gearing a loan analysis to census tract data, such as proposed by 
the FDIC and the FI1LBB, presents several problems, including: 
(1) the tremendous number of census tracts that would be involved 
vith respect to an area serviced by a large commercial bank (for 
example, a survey of the census tracts of the Washington, D. C. 
SMSA would involve analysis of the racial breakdown of over 600 
census tracts) and (2) the lack of census-tract data for many non-
urban areas. 
The Board believes that an effective method of analysis 
of racial and ethnic data must be developed before it can consider 
requesting member banks to maintain records that might be needed. 
The staff is continuing its efforts toward this objective. 

. f. . 
To: Mr. Stephen Horn 
-4-
"5. The July 31, 1972 response of the FRS to the 
* 
. Commission's questionnaire indicated that further 
communication with HUD on the implications of the 
findings of the joint questionnaire on lending 
discrimination would take place and that a more 
detailed report of the results of the questionnaire 
- • 
was expected. 
a. Please indicate in detail the results of 
further communications with HUD concerning the 
questionnaire. 
b. What actions have been taken by the FRS since 
July, 1972 as a result of the findings of the 
questionnaire?" 
x 
At the time the questionnaire was being prepared, it was 
agreed that HUD would collate and analyze the data obtained from 
the responses. After receiving the "first report" from HUD in 
May of 1972, a meeting was held with that agency to discuss its 
implications. 
Since that time we have not received a more detailed 
report on the analysis of the responses. Should HUD submit further 
reports we would, of course, review and analyze them with a view 
towards further cooperative efforts with that agency. 
"6. Has the FRS, since July 1972, revised the civil 
rights questionnaire used in connection with its 
regular bank examination? 
If so, please provide 
a copy of the revised questionnaire. What were 
the results of the in-depth analysis of the first 
year use of the questionnaire?" 
The Civil Rights Questionnaire is prepared by examiners 
in connection with each examination of a State member bank by the 
Federal Reserve System. The questionnaire was first implemented 
in October, 1971 and was revised in December, 1971. A copy of the 
questionnaire currently in use is attached for your information. 
The System's experience to date with the questionnaire 
seems to indicate that its use is particularly effective as a 
reminder to banks of their responsibilities under Title VIII of 
the Civil Rights Act of 1968 and as a signal to them that our 
examiners are enforcing the Act. We have some reservations as to 
the effectiveness of the questionnaire in disclosing actual 
instances of discrimination since the data needed to complete the 
questions must, in most cases, be obtained from statements made 
by management of the bank and cannot be verified inasmuch as most 
banks do not maintain records containing the needed information. 

1910 
To: Mr. Stephen Horn 
-5-
The Board recognizes there are shortcomings inherent in 
this approach, but it believes that the use of the questionnaire 
in banks is beneficial to the furtherance of the objectives of 
the Act. As stated in response to question 4, the Federal Reserve 
has indicated an interest in participating with the other super-
visory agencies in the collection of racial data on applications 
for residential loans. If such a program becomes operative, the 
Federal Reserve would conduct a thorough review of its questionnaire 
and data gathering mechanism. 
"7. Is the course aimed at acquainting bank examiners 
with the provisions of civil rights laws as 
applicable to financial institutions still offered 
at the FRS schools? 
a. How many bank examiners have taken it since 
July, 1972? 
* 
b. Please describe the course syllabus in detail 
and indicate the number of hours required to 
complete the course." 
a. The civil rights nondiscrimination training program 
developed by the Board's Division of Supervision and Regulation 
with the cooperation of the Board's Office of General Counsel has 
been made a permanent part of the Board's examiner training program. 
Since July 1972, 253 bank examiners and trainees have attended this 
program. At the end of 1972 the System employed about 535 examiners 
and assistants. 
b. The civil rights training program is presented to 
every class of examiners attending the Board's four week Bank 
Examiner Training Program by an attorney from the Board's Office 
of General Counsel and a supervisory review examiner from the 
Board's Division of Supervision and Regulation. The program is 
presented from the point of view of the examiner's responsibility 
pursuant to the nondiscrimination provisions of the Civil Rights 
Act of 1968. Copies of the relevant sections of that Act are 
distributed to each person attending the class and the relevant 
provisions of the Act are discussed by the staff attorney. The 
course includes a discussion of the Board's responsibilities 
under the Act and the measures adopted thus far by the Board in 
its efforts to encourage nondiscrimination in real estate lending 
among member banks as required by the Act. The representative of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation discusses the examiner 

To: Mr. Stephen Horn 
-6-
1911 
questionnaire developed in 1971 by the Board and the major types 
of discriminatory lending practices that could be applied by a 
bank against minority groups. In this regard, examiners are 
instructed to become familiar with the service area of the bank 
being examined. They also are instructed to study the bank's loan 
portfolio for areas where loans are not being made and for variations 
from the prevailing rate of interest. 
••. 
Following the prepared presentation, the examiner class 
is led in a discussion of the effectiveness of the existing com-
pliance program and the pros and cons of the proposed racial data 
keeping requirement and the resulting examiner role should such a 
requirement become a part of the Board's civil rights program. 
Examiners are encouraged to report any indication of discriminatory 
loan policies of a bank examined and are assured that the staffs 
of the Reserve Banks and the Board will make a follow-up examination 
of any bank thought by an examiner to be applying discriminatory 
loan policies. The formal instruction period for the Civil.Rights 
Act of 1968 lasts for approximately one hour and is followed by a 
discussion period. In addition, the examiner-students are encouraged 
to contact either the staff attorney or the supervisory review 
examiner during their attendance at the examiner course if they 
wish to discuss further the implication of the Civil Rights Act on 
their role as examiners. 
"8. Has the Board revised its opinion as set forth 
in its April 8, 1971 staff Memorandum of Law 
pertaining to the authority of the Board to 
require enforcement by State member banks of 
nondiscrimination requirements directed to 
builders and developers? 
If so, please provide 
the Commission with a copy." 
The Memorandum of Law dated April 8, 1971, a copy of 
which was forwarded to the Commission as a supplement to the 
Board's response to the Commission on March 12, 1971, continues 
to represent the position of the Board's staff with respect to the 
Board's authority to require member institutions to impose non-
di scrimination requirements on builders and developers with whom 
they have financial dealings. 
"9. On how many occasions since July, 1972 have FRS 
bank examiners determined that banks had not 
fulfilled the technical equal employment opportunity 
requirements, e.g., the filing of a written affirmative 
action plan and the submittal of appropriate reports 
to EEOC, and what was done in each such case?" 

To: Mr. Stephen Horn 
-7-
• In a letter dated February 25, 1971, the Secretary of 
the Treasury requested that examiners for the System determine 
"without evaluation" if banks examined by them with 50 or more 
employees (1) have filed the required Equal Opportunity Reports, 
Standard Form EEO-1, with the Joint Report Committee of the 
Equal Opportunity Commission (2) have forwarded a copy of the 
report to the Director of Equal Opportunity Program, U. S. Treasury, 
and (3) have a written affirmative action program. In response 
to the request, the Board directed the president of each Reserve 
Bank to instruct examiners to determine, as part of the regular 
examination, that each bank is in compliance. Attached are copies 
of the instructions and a copy of the form to be used by examiners 
vhich when completed is forwarded to the Director of Equal Opportunity, 
U. S. Treasury. 
As of February 28, 1973, there were two State member 
banks that had no written affirmative action programs on file^ 
two that had failed to file the required report,.and one that 
bad no written program and had failed to file the report. Although 
the five banks had previously been reported to the United States 
Treasury by the Reserve Banks as instructed, the negative reports 
ttere again called to the attention of the Treasury by members of 
the Board's staff. A representative of the Treasury indicated 
that letters would be forwarded by that agency to each of the 
deficient banks. 
"10. What action has FRS taken to prohibit discrimination 
on the basis of sex by institutions under its 
supervision? 
If any instructions, guidelines or 
regulations have been issued, please provide the 
Commission with a copy." 
The Civil Rights Act provides that a person who believes 
be or she has been discriminated against on the basis of "race, 
color, religion and national origin" may initiate complaint proceedings 
With the Secretary of HUD or legal action in the Federal District 
Courts. Legislative history relating to the Act indicates that 
Congress was asked by women's organizations to expand the definition 
discrimination to include sex and marital status. However, the 
Act as enacted omits any reference to discrimination on the basis 
sex. 
) 

To: Mr. Stephen Horn 
- 8 -
» 1 3 x 3 
As indicated above, members of the Board's staff attended 
the hearing held by the FDIC on regulations proposed by that agency 
concerning the lending policies of insured State nonmember banks. 
At that hearing testimony was given dealing with bank lending 
policies that may have a discriminatory effect upon women. 
At the present time, however, there appears to be no 
Federal statutory provision that would authorize the Board to 
question the decision of a loan officer who has determined in 
good faith that a loan to a woman should not be made after review 
of her entire financial situation (which might include consideration 
of her age, marital status, and number of dependent children in 
addition to her income and credit rating). A number of bills are 
pending before Congress aimed at eliminating discrimination on 
the basis of sex or marital status in commercial credit transactions. 
The Board supports the efforts to expand the coverage of 
the Federal law against discriminatory lending practices to reach 
(1) discrimination in fields of credit other than housing credit 
and (2) discrimination on the basis of sex, as well as race, color, 
religion or national origin. The Board believes also that the 
coverage of these bills could be expanded further to include dis-
crimination on the basis of marital status in all areas of consumer 
credit. 
"1.1. What other activities has FRS engaged in pursuant 
to its obligations under Title VIII of the Civil Rights 
Act of 1968?" 
Recently, it was called to the Board's attention that 
examiner criticism of loan quality may inhibit officials of State 
member banks in their ability to participate in local efforts to 
provide financial assistance to communities. 
Specifically, it 
was reported that lending officers were reluctant to extend credit 
which does not meet the quality standards expected of bank credit, 
but which would represent action taken for the betterment of the 
community. 
The Board recognizes that in order to meet the needs of 
their communities, State member banks under its supervision arc 
at times called upon to extend marginal credit as a commitment 
to an improved social and economic climate. These credits are 
made for such worthwhile purposes as providing funds to minority-
owned or small businesses, the financing of low income housing, 
and the funding of enterprises whose objectives and purposes are 

To: Mr. Stephen Horn 
-9-
1 9 1 4 
primarily of a civic or community nature or seem socially desirable 
to a bank's board of directors. The Board believes the System's 
supervisory policies and procedures should not dissuade State 
member banks from engaging in activities primarily designed to 
achieve social objectives so long as such activities do not threaten 
their safety and soundness. 
In order to remove any misunderstanding, System examiners 
were advised of the Board's view that a bank which has a stated 
policy of making "social action" loans should not have the policy 
criticized if its overall financial condition justifies the taking 
of a higher than normal level of risk. Examiners were instructed 
to evaluate loans made under such policies just as any other loan — 
that is, on the basis of the borrower's record of performance and 
his ability to make timely repayment in the future -- but to stress 
to management that the presence of a moderate amount of marginal 
loans in the examination report should not be interpreted as a^ 
criticism of their policies and practices. 
Examiners were also instructed to identify, through 
consultation with bank lending officers, all marginal loans subject 
to criticism that were made under a "social action" program and 
to group them on a separate page of the report of examination under 
a heading similar to the following: 
"The Federal Reserve Bank recognizes the responsibility 
of your institution to participate in activities of 
your community designed primarily to improve its 
social and economic climate, and the appearance of 
the following loans in the examination report is not 
intended as a criticism of the policies or practices 
pursued in granting such credit." 
The Board has implemented a procedure whereby its employees 
who are seeking housing and feel that they have been discriminated 
against, may receive guidance and counsel at the Board. The Director 
of Equal Employment Opportunity has available the services of 
attorneys from the Board's Legal Division to assist him in providing 
guidance to employees. 
To further assist employees seeking housing or desiring 
to sell or rent housing, the Division of Personnel Administration 
has acquired bulletin boards on which to post housing notices. The 

I 
To: Mr. Stephen Horn 
-10-
^ J1. ly 
listings of available housing are made with the assurance that 
such properties are offered on a nondiscriminatory basis. For 
new employees joining the Board, the Division of Personnel 
Administration provides assistance in locating housing that is 
offered on a non-discriminatory basis. 
We hope our replies to your questions have been sufficiently 
responsive. If we can be of further assistance to the Commission, 
please do not hesitate to inquire. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 

Item No. 7 
5/29/73-
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CENTRAL BANCORP. , INC. 
IS* i 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
Central Bancorp., Inc., r.iami, Florida, has applied for 
lle Board's approval under § 3(a) (3) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t (12 U.S.Co 1042 (a) (3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of Central rational Bank of r.iami, r.iami, 
("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
lntcrested p e r s o n s to submit comments and vievrs, has been given 
ln Accordance with * 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing 
c°mments and. views has expired, and the Board has considered 
th 
* - application and all comments received in light of the factors 
Set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(c)). 
Applicant presently controls the Central Bank and Trust 
topan^ 
n 
Con*Pany and Central Bank of North Dade, both located in Hi ami, 
representing about one-half of one per cent of deposits 
in 
commercial banks in Florida and two and a half per cent of 
SUch deposits in Dade County.V The acquisition of Bank (deposits 
million) would have no significant effect on the con-
juration of banking resources in Florida and would increase 
^ U c a n t ' s share of deposits in Dade County by less than one-
of a percentage point. Although all three banks compete 
^ 
AITbanking data are as of June 30, 1972. 

1917 
ln the same banking market, there is little existing competition 
stvjeen them due to the fact that the institutions have been 
Mer substantially common ownership since 1068 (Applicant's 
principal shareholder owns over 54 per cent of Bank's stock). 
C°nsummation of the proposal would have no significant adverse 
eff®cts on existing or potential competition and competitive 
c°nsiclerations are, therefore, consistent with approval, 
The Board's inquiry does not end here. Under the statute, 
lt must also examine the convenience and needs of the communities 
to 
served, the financial and managerial resources of the 
^01<Hng company and the banks involved, and determine whether 
C°nsummation of the proposal would be in the public interest. 
While Applicant proposes to add additional services to 
° S e offered by Bank, such services are readily available in 
Da T 
e County at the present time. Considerations relating to 
tlle convenience and needs of the communities to be served are 
th 
Grefore consistent with but lend no weight toward approval. 
While the above considerations are consistent with 
^Ptoval, considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
^s°urces and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and 
B£lnk give rise to serious concern in connection with this proposal. 
^ H c a n t proposes to borrow $3.5 million to purchase the shares 
one of its principals ovms in Bank. It proposes to eliminate 

_ 1918 
-3-
this debt and make an equal offer to minority shareholders at 
a later date through issuance of 430,700 shares of its stock at 
$15 per share. Applicant contends that it could thus raise the 
ni0re than $6 million which the transaction would require. 
An analysis of the financial history and condition of 
applicant and its subsidiary banks indicates that the 1970 
e°nsolidated income before income taxes and securities gains of 
applicant on a per share basis was $1.90. For 1972 this figure 
Was $.62. Similarly, the income before income taxes and securities 
6ains of Applicant's lead bank declined from $1.7 million in 1970 
0 ^7 28 thousand in 1972. Its other subsidiary bank showed income 
^efore income taxes and securities gains of $270 thousand in 1970 
anci a loss before income taxes and securities gains of $105 thou-
Sand in 1972 (loss of $213 thousand for 1971). Bank's income, on 
the 
other hand, has been level over the last three years. Given 
financial history? the Board believes it is highly unlikely 
Applicant can market its proposed stock offering for a 
Sure which represents 25 times 1972 income before income taxes 
^ 
securities gains. 
IVhile the inclusion of Bank into Applicant's system might 
aProve Applicant's financial condition somewhat, as the Board 
has „ 
°n many occasions stated, a holding company should be a 
°Urce of strength for its subsidiary banks rather than using 
to improve its posture. Under these circumstances, financial 
derations weigh strongly against approval of this application. 

1919 
Additionally, the Board has serious reservations with 
Aspect to the managerial resources of Applicant which are 
Underscored by the continuing decline in earnings of Applicant's 
subsidiary 
bankso Applicant's principal shareholder is 
^airman of the Board and Executive Vice President of Applicant 
its subsidiary banks, as well as Bank. Three of that 
dividual's children act variously as officers and directors 
0f the institutions involved. Of this family group, three 
resiae in Houston, Texas, and one in California* 
Business 
ls conducted by telephone or mail and short monthly trips 
to * iiami„ For these services the individuals receive substantial 
As the Board stated in connection with the application 
^ 
Seilon, Inc., 58 Federal Reserve Bulletin 72S, absentee 
^agement is substantially less effective than on the scene 
i ^^gement, which is usually better able to react quickly when, 
I 
^ 
if, financial, operational, or managerial difficulties arise 
a subsidiary bank. As such, the Board regards absentee 
^nagement as less than desirable. This is particularly true 
^ r e , as here, the banks are experiencing earning problems. 
^ 
Board is unable to conclude that considerations relating to 
Management factor are consistent with approval of Applicant's 
Pr°Posal. 

, 1 3 2 0 
T'7hile denial of the application pay not immediately effect 
listing relationships clue to the common ownership between Applicant 
Bank, approval would represent Board sanction of existing 
Management practices and would increase Applicant's debt to an 
Acceptable level, absent the unlikely success of the proposed 
Nblic offering. The public interest would not be served by 
SUch action. 
In light of the above, it is the Foard's judgment that 
tae proposed transaction would not be in the public interest 
^ 
should not be approved. While the Board has concluded that the 
Plication should be denied for those reasons, this should not be 
c°ns trued as Board approval of other aspects of the proposeo. 
^saction. particularly the proposal to make certain payments 
in this connection to the principal shareholder of Applicant and 
of t, 
uanK, but not to other shareholders of Bank. 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied 
f Qy. 
. , 
the reasons summarized above. 
By order of the Board of Governors 
effective TTay 30, 1973.h 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
(Sj^ 
Secretary of the Board 
i!it
 V°ting for this actions Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
V0t?hell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not 
3/ 
" Chairman Burns. 
ju ^oard action was taken while Governor Robertson was a Board 

Item No. 8 
5/29/73-
1 c ) i M 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
* 
i 
FIDELITY CORPORATION OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Order Approving Acquisition of Local Finance Corporation 
Fidelity Corporation of Pennsylvania, Rosemont, Pennsylvania, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of 
the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all 
°f the voting shares of Local Finance Corporation, Providence, Rhode 
island ("Local"), a company that engages, through its subsidiaries, in 
the activities cf making consumer loans to individuals, including second 
m°rtgage loans where legally permitted; engaging in a general consumer 
finance business; selling credit life and credit health and accident 
insurance to its borrowers and casualty insurance on collateral securing 
Sllch loans; and, through Master Life Insurance Co., a subsidiary of 
L°cal, reinsuring such credit life, health, and accident insurance sold. 
Such activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related 
t o banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), (9), and (10)), except to the extent 
indicated hereinafter. 
In addition to the activities enumerated above, 
^°cal i 8 a i s o presently engaged, through a subsidiary, in the reinsuring 
of 
4 casualty insurance on household goods serving as collateral on loans 
^ade by subsidiaries of Local. Although originally a part of the instant 
Application, the application was amended by Applicant to withdraw the 
tequest for approval of its indirect acquisition of Local's casualty 
teinsurance subsidiary; Applicant represents that such subsidiary will 
k® divested by Local prior to consummation of the proposed transactions. 

This order therefore should not be construed as authorizing indirect 
acquisition of that subsidiary by Applicant nor has the Board considered 
whether the activities of that subsidiary are so closely related to 
banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident 
thereto«, 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
keen duly published (37 Federal Register 10530). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired and the Board has considered all com-
ments received in the light of the public interest factors set forth in 
section 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C, 1843(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank with aggregate deposits of $1.4 
billion representing 4.3 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the 
State, (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972 adjusted to reflect 
bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved through March 31, 
19730) 
Local performs management and accounting services for its 
°Perating subsidiaries and does not directly transact any business with 
^ e public. Sixty-six of its 68 operating subsidiaries are engaged in 
consumer finance company activities while the other two subsidiaries 
at>e engaged in the reinsurance of certain credit life and credit accident 
ar>d health insurance policies, and the reinsurance of certain casualty 
insurance policies. Local's 66 loan subsidiaries operate from Rhode 
Isiendj Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina, 

1923 
-3-
and had total loans outstanding amounting to $37*4 million as of December 31, 
1971. The finance companies also act as agents for the sale of credit life 
insurance, credit accident and health insurance, and casualty insurance in 
connection with their extensions of credit. 
Twenty-three of Local's consumer finance subsidiaries operate 
from offices in New Jersey and three additional subsidiaries maintain 
offices in Pennsylvania,, Applicant does not engage in consumer finance 
company activities in Rhode Island, Massachusetts, or North Carolina; nor 
does there appear to be a substantial likelihood that it will engage de 
Hovo in these activities in those States. Applicant's lead bank operates 
in the Philadelphia banking market which includes the Counties of 
Philadelphia and Delaware, as well as the eastern portion of Bucks, 
Montgomery, and Chester Counties and holds a personal loan portfolio 
totaling approximately $96 million. Local's subsidiaries have offices in 
pcnnsauken and Merchantville, New Jersey, in the Camden market and another 
office in the Trenton market, deriving total outstandings of $2.1 million 
ffom those two markets. The proximity of these two markets to the 
Philadelphia banking market suggests the existence of some competition 
kfctwaen Local and Applicant's lead bank along the intervening market 
boundaries. Local's three Pennsylvania offices are located north and east 
°f the Allentown-Bethlehem area and are not considered to be in competition 
with Applicant's lead bank. Although there may be some overlap in the 
°ustomers served by Local and Applicant's banking subsidiary, it does not 
aPpear that consummation of the proposed acquisition would have a 

1924 
-3-
sl8nificantly adverse effect on competition for consumer loans in the 
amden, Trenton, or Philadelphia markets, in view of the small amount 
outstandings held by Local's subsidiaries in these areas and the 
§reat number of consumer loan sources present in those markets, including 
^jor consumer loan companies and banks. In view of the large number of 
listing competitors and potential entrants into these markets, consum-
ption of the proposed transaction is not likely to have a significant 
adv*?se effect on future or potential competition even though Applicant 
spears tc possess the resources to enter those markets d£ novo,, Nor 
d°es It appear that consummation will adversely affect the availability 
of iencable funds to other consumer finance companies, Accordingly, the 
B°fird concludes that approval of the application insofar as it relates to 
th 
e finance company subsidiaries of Local would not appear to have any 
8i&*Uficant adverse effect on existing or potential competition. The 
ConiPetitive effects of the proposed insurance agency activities are also 
Warded as consistent with approval of the application. 
With respect to the proposed insurance agency activities of 
L°Calj the Board has taken increasing notice of a practice permitted in 
States whereby level term credit life insurance is sold in con-
Action with installment lending,, In such circumstances, the amount of 
Uf 
ce insurance coverage provided remains fixed while the balance of the 
°utstanding 
loan decreases with the periodic repayments by the borrower, 
e additional coverage provided in excess of the outstanding balance 
d°es not provide any protection for the lender and is not generally 

1925 
-5~ 
related to the insurance needs of the borrower. Decreasing term life 
durance is a readily available form of insurance which provides 
^equate protection for the lender. Under these circumstances, the 
^°ard does not regard the sale of level term credit life insurance 
connection with installment lending as directly related to an ex-
tension of credit under section 225.4(a)(9)(ii) of Regulation Y. This 
not exclude limited sale of such insurance as a matter of conven-
*"etlce to the purchaser, so long as the premium income from such sale, 
vllc-n combined with the premium income derived from the sale of other 
c°nvenience" insurance by Applicant or its subsidiaries, does not con-
S t l t«e a significant portion of the aggregate insurance premium income 
APPlicant from insurance sold pursuant to section 225.4(a)(9)(ii) of 
E l a t i o n Y. 
Local also engages in the activity of underwriting, as rein-
8Utev. 
credit life and credit accident and health insurance which is 
CCJ-y related to its extensions of credit, as well as the under-
^ g , as reinsurer, of level coverage insurance. Applicant does not 
s®ntly engage in insurance underwriting activities and the proposed 
nation with Applicant would appear to have no significant effects 
c°mpetition 
within the underwriting industry. As indicated above, 
coverage insurance is not considered to be directly related to 
Extension of credit. This being the case, section 225.4(a)(10) of 
Aation Y does not authorize the underwriting of such insurance. 

1 9 ^ 6 
-3-
In adding credit life underwriting to the list of permissible 
activities for bank holding companies, the Board stated that, "To assure 
that engaging in the underwriting of credit life and credit accident and 
health insurance can reasonably be expected to be in the public interest, 
3oard will only approve applications in which an applicant demon-
crates that approval will benefit the consumer or result in other public 
L 
Merits. Normally such a showing would be made by a projected reduction 
rates or increase in policy benefits due to bank holding company 
Pe'fformance of this service," (12 C?R 225.4(a) (10)). Applicant has 
st^tad that the proposed reinsurance subsidiary and the direct insurer, 
issues the credit life and credit accident and health insurance 
Policies made available by its lending subsidiaries, will reduce the 
rat£.s charged for credit life insurance by 2 per cent in Rhode Island, 
^Sf?achusetts, and New Jersey, 15 per cent in North Carolina, and by 
3,33 
Per cent per hundred dollars of indebtedness in Pennsylvania. 
^Urth 
ner, the suicide exclusion would be eliminated from the credit life 
<-«ince policies. In addition, six exclusions presently included in 
-t health and accident insurance policies reinsured by a subsidiary 
-cal would be eliminated. These relate to the place of occurrence, 
* ary service-connected events, self-inflicted events, non-scheduled 
^ctaft accidents, alcoholism and drug 
diction and pre-existing health 
n^itions; their exclusion will result in the payment of increased 
nefits to policyholders* 
It is the Board's judgment that these benefits 
to {-L 
n e public are consistent with approval of the application. 

19J27 
-3-
Applicant's greater access to financial resources may assure 
Local of more ready access to funds and enable it to become a more 
ef£ective competitor, and thus increase public convenience and stimulate 
competition with affiliates of larger regional and national financial 
°rganizations active in the consumer finance company industry in the 
rcUevant markets,, Further, Local's present management appears to have 
Emitted, on at least two recent occasions, practices that are incon-
S i^ent with the public interest; the Board w i n Q X p e c t A p p l i c a n t t 0 -
either directly involve itself in, or exercise strict supervision over, 
th 
e management of Local and that such involvement or supervision will 
a v e a corrective effect on Local's operations redounding to the benefit 
the public. Based upon the foregoing and other considerations 
teflected in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of 
th 
e Public interest factors the Board is required to consider under 
§ 4(C)(8) 
is favorable with respect to the proposed finance company and 
ertain of the insurance agency and underwriting activities. 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved, except to the 
e X t e n t that the application contemplates 1) reinsurance of level cover-
a g G insurance and 2) the sale of level coverage insurance, the gross 
Mission income from which, would constitute, in the aggregate (when 
Pitied with other "convenience" insurance sold by Applicant and its 
8ubaidiaries) an amount equal to five per cent or more of the aggregate 
sCno « 
3 commission income of Applicant and its subsidiaries deriving from 
th 
e sale of insurance pursuant to section 225.4(a)(9)(ii) of Regulation Y. 

-3-
that extent, the application is hereby denied and approval of the 
«-emainder of the application is expressly conditioned upon the discon-
tinuation of the above-described level coverage insurance reinsurance 
and sales activities by Local or its subsidiaries prior to, or upon, 
c°nsummation of the proposed transaction. This determination is 
additionally subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of 
Re8ulation Y (12 CFR 225.4(c)) and to the Board's authority to require 
Su°k modification or termination of the activities of a holding company 
°r any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure com-
pliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 29, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
ehan and Bucher, Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 9 
5/29/73-
i y s y 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 30, 1973 
Mr. James E. Simonton 
1015 7th North Street 
Liverpool, New York 
13088 
Dear Mr. Simonton: 
Enclosed please find a copy of the Board's Order and press 
Release aoproving in part and denying in part the application of 
Fid elity Corporation of Pennsylvania, Rosemont, Pennsylvania, to ac-
quire shares of Local Finance Corporation, Providence, Rhode Island. 
The pendency of your complaints before the New Jersey 
Division of Civil Rights and Bureau of Consumer Credit against Local 
Finance Corporation, as described in your former counsel's letter of 
June 16, 1972 and enclosures therewith, was brought to the Board's 
attention in its consideration of that application. Although the 
Board is strongly opposed to racially discriminatory lending policies 
and practices, the pendency of your civil rights complaints against 
Local Finance Corporation would appear to be a factor weighing for 
approval rather than denial of the application. 
The introduction of 
new management possessing the integrity and reputation of Fidelity 
Corporation of Pennsylvania would produce a public benefit to the 
°xtent that civil rights violations, if any, committed or countenanced 
by Local Finance Corporation would cease under new management. 
In 
this connection, Fidelity Corporation of Pennsylvania has assured the 
ftoard that "the acquisition. . .would give added strength to the 
Management policy relating to observance of the spirit as well as the 
letter of all of the civil rights statutes and regulations." 
It should be understood, of course, that the Board did not 
find that Local Finance Corporation has adopted racially discrimina-
tory lending policies or engaged in such practices; the resolution of 
Sueh questions is, of course, more suitable for the agencies to which 
have previously complained. 

1030 
Mr. James E. Simonton 
-2-
The Board appreciates your expression of interest in the 
subject application. 
Very truly yours, 
Enclosures 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
J \ 
\ 
