MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 19, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, April 19, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr„ Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion of First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, 

'S 0 
1 
X/W / r 
4/19/73 
-2-
New York, to continue to hold shares of Yonder Investment Corporation, 
a Delaware corporation, after the latter acquires shares of Societe 
de Credit pour 1'Acquisition et 1'Amelioration des Immeubles, S.A., 
Paris, France. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Central 
Bancshares of the South, Inc., (formerly Central and State National 
Corporation of Alabama), Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of 
(1) The First National Bank of Auburn, Auburn, Alabama; and (2) the 
successor by merger to The Deposit National Bank of Mobile County, 
Prichard, Alabama. Issuance of an order reflecting those decisions 
W a s authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of First 
National Bankshares of Florida, Inc., Pompano Beach, Florida, to 
acquire shares of (1) The Indian River Citrus Bank, Vero Beach, 
Florida; and (2) The Westside Bank of Vero Beach, a proposed new 
bank. The Board unanimously denied the applications of First National 
Bankshares to acquire shares of (1) The Beach Bank of Vero Beach, 
vero Beach, Florida; and (2) The Sebastian River Bank, Sebastian, 
Florida. Issuance of an order reflecting those decisions was authorized. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 

t ' 
4/19/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Northwest 
Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to engage in the underwriting, 
as reinsurer, of credit life and credit accident and health insurance 
through a de novo subsidiary to be known as Banco Credit Life Insurance 
Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Board's approval was conditioned 
upon Northwest not engaging in the underwriting of credit life insur-
ance in Iowa. It was understood that an order reflecting that decision 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
The Board authorized issuance of a notice that the hearings the 
Board had ordered with respect to pending applications by bank holding 
companies to engage in insurance agency activities would be conducted 
a s public hearings. A copy of the notice is attached as Item No. 4, 
along with a copy of the related press release. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chase Manhattan Bank (Switzerland). At the meeting on April 16, 
1973, the Board discussed, but deferred action on, a problem arising 
from supervisory informational requirements versus Swiss secrecy laws 
l n connection with a request by The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
Association), New York, New York, to make an additional investment in 
lt:s wholly-owned subsidiary, Chase Manhattan Bank (Switzerland). Chase 
Manhattan had requested that the Board furnish a statement describing 
l t s informational requirements; Chase Manhattan would attempt to obtain 
agreement by Swiss authorities that such information might be provided. 

4/19/73 
-4-
At today's meeting, after considering the alternatives avail-
able, the Board agreed that it would confirm its July 12, 1972, letter 
refusing to approve the additional investment without a firm commit-
ment from Chase Manhattan about supplying information. It was also 
agreed that the Board would not place itself in the position of 
seeming to encourage or discourage Chase Manhattan from going to the 
Swiss authorities. The staff was requested to draft a letter in those 
terms and a statement describing the information the Board believed 
should be available to the head offices of foreign branches and subsid-
iaries for their proper administration and supervision. 
First National City Bank. On March 29, 1973, the Board voted 
to deny the application of First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, to establish a trust company in the Cayman Islands, to be known 
as Cititrust (Cayman) Ltd. The proposed trust company would offer 
general trust services to United States residents. Chairman Burns was 
not present when the action was taken at the March 29 meeting, and 
because of the issues raised, Governor Daane had requested that the 
matter be brought to the Chairman's attention and reconsidered if the 
Chairman agreed that the issues warranted further consideration by 
the Board. 
It was subsequently decided that the application should be 
reconsidered by the Board and in a memorandum from the Office of the 
Secretary dated April 6, 1973, the pertinent issues surrounding this 

1277 
4/19/73 
-5-
case were presented. Other relevant documentation included a memoran-
dum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated February 27, 
1973. 
During the discussion, several alternative views were expressed. 
Certain Board members believed that since applicant stated that the 
proposed subsidiary would do business with U.S. customers, the proposal 
would be in violation of section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act. Other 
members, however, indicated general agreement with the view that the 
proposal would be permissible if it were subject to the condition that 
Cititrust would not perform trust services for U.S. residents unless 
those services were directly related to a foreign business transaction. 
After further discussion, the Board denied the application, 
Governors Daane and Bucher dissenting, and Chairman Burns abstaining. 
Request for currency depository. The Minister of Finance of 
the Republic of Liberia had requested that the Federal Reserve System 
establish a currency depository in Liberia to facilitate the management 
°f United States currency, which circulates as the official currency 
of Liberia. The proposal suggested that the expenses involved in the 
shipment, insurance, and destruction of the currency be borne by the 
System. 
In a memorandum dated April 18, 1973, Governor Brimmer noted 
that officials at the Department of the Treasury had previously spoken 
against the proposal of the Liberian Finance Minister, while certain 

„ 127 8 
4/19/73 
-6-
officials at the Department of State had expressed support for the 
proposal. Governor Brimmer recommended that, in view of these conflict-
ing positions, the Board refer the matter to both the Treasury and 
State Departments with a formal request for guidance. Other related 
documentation included memoranda dated April 17, 1973, from the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations and April 18, 1973, from 
the Legal Division. 
The Board unanimously approved Governor Brimmer's recommenda-
tion. A copy of the letter sent to the Treasury Department is 
attached as Item No. 5. A similar letter was sent to the State Depart-
ment. 
Orbanco, Inc. On March 29, 1973, the Board considered the 
application of Orbanco, Inc., Portland, Oregon, to acquire indirectly 
shares of Far West Securities Co., Spokane, Washington, a company that 
engages in mortgage banking activities. At that time, questions were 
raised regarding (1) the timing of applicant's proposal to have The 
Oregon Bank, its only banking subsidiary, issue $5 million in capital 
notes; and (2) the current condition of the bank. In a memorandum 
dated April 9, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation provided 
the information requested and reiterated its recommendation of approval. 
Other related documentation included memoranda dated March 23, 1973, 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation and April 16, 1973, 
from the Legal Division. 

±27!) 
4/19/73 
-7-
During the discussion, some members of the Board expressed 
the view that the application should be denied because of covenants 
not to compete contained in employment contracts between applicant and 
key employees of Far West, which were regarded as anti-competitive. 
The majority of the Board, however, did not find such covenants objec-
tionable. 
The Board approved the application, Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, and Brimmer dissenting. It was understood that an order 
reflecting that decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, 
and that a dissenting statement would also be prepared. 
Security National Corporation. In a memorandum dated March 2, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended denial of the application of Security National 
Corporation, Sioux City, Iowa, to acquire shares of Siouxland Credit 
Corp., Sioux City, Iowa. Other related documentation included a 
memorandum of April 16, 1973, in which the Banking Markets Section 
Provided additional information regarding automobile loans made by 
applicant's principal banking subsidiary, Security National Bank of 
Sioux City, that had been requested by Governor Mitchell. 
The Board unanimously denied the application, with the under-
standing that an order reflecting that decision would be prepared for 
the Board's consideration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1280 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
'nOV Cov>. 
• F THE 
Item No. I 
4/19/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
ADORERS Cf nr.lAL C O R K £ Si P U N O E N C
7 D THE BOARD 
April 20, 1973 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlcmen: 
As requested in your letter of March 
1973, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ('.iNCOIC") to purchase 
and hold indirectly through Yonder Investment Cor poration ("YIC"), 
Delaware, up to 80 per cent of the shares of Societe de Credit pour 
1'Acquisition et 1'Amelioration des Imrceubles, 
("SCAM"), Paris, 
France, at a cost' of approximately Fr. Francs 2^.000,000 (about 
$5,700,000), provided the shares arc acquired wi'hiu one year from 
the date of this lettere 
The Board's consent to the proposed ir'irect purchase and 
holding of shares of SCAM by FNC01.C is granted s.fhject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly i indirectly, 
any shares of stock in SCAM if SCAM a 
my time 
fails to restrict its activities to t'. -Be permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporate, i organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Re :rve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Gove;" ors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if SCAM establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or underta is any operation 
in France or elsewhere, in any manner vhich at the 
time would noc be permissible to FNCO" ; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of ">vernors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such rep-r:s regarding the 
activities of SCAM as it may require . :om time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispo- -tons by SCAM be 
reported under Section 211uS(d) of R 
.d at ion K in the 
same manner as if SCAM were a corpora 
a organized 
unde r S ection 25(a ) of the } c deral >'••: erve Act; 

First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-3-
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Hoard 

V. 1282 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
4/19/73 
CENTRAL BANCSHARES OF THE SOUTH, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Central Bancshares of the South, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama 
(f 
ormerly Central and State National Corporation of Alabama, Birming-
^am> Alabama), a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank 
hiding Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under 
§ 3<a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire not less 
than DA 
per cent of the voting shares of The First National Bank of 
A U b u r n» Auburn, Alabama ("Auburn Bank"); and to acquire 100 per cent 
Of {.L 
e voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the sue-
C e S S o r by merger to The Deposit National Bank of Mobile County, 
Pri-chard, Alabama ("Prichard Bank"). The bank into which Prichard 
ls to be merged has no significance except as a means to 
c*litate the acquisition of the voting shares of Prichard Bank. 
A c c o t h • 
lngly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
8anl 2 a t i o n i s t r e a t e cj herein as the proposed acquisition of the 
S H a r e s of Prichard Bank. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
terested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
Cc°rdance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
views has expired,and the Board has considered the applications 
AJ- comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3<c> of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

- 1283 
- 2 -
Applicant controls four banks with aggregate deposits of 
aPproximately $549 million, representing 9 per cent of total deposits 
i n commercial banks in Alabama and is the third largest banking 
Organization and bank holding company in the State. (All banking 
d a ta are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through March 31, 
l 9 7 3 0 
The acquisition of Auburn Bank ($18 million deposits) and 
Richard Bank ($10 million deposits) would increase Applicant's 
share of State deposits by five-tenths of a percentage point. 
Auburn Bank is the third largest of the six commercial 
banks located in the Lee County banking market, all of which are 
Affiliated at the present time. It holds approximately 19 per 
Cetlt of total market deposits, and the largest, second, fourth and 
flfth largest banks hold 24 per cent, 23 per cent, 19 per cent, and 
^ Per cent, respectively, of such total deposits. Applicant's 
closest subsidiary office is located 57 miles from Auburn. 
Prichard Bank is located in the Mobile banking market 
V?here it controls approximately 1 per cent of total deposits as 
t h e tenth largest of the market's 13 banks. The two largest market 
banks control approximately 71 per cent of total deposits. Applicant's 
cl°sest subsidiary banking office is located 198 miles northeast of 
Prlchard Bank. 

1284 
-3-
Applicant is riot presently represented in either the Lee 
County or the Mobile banking markets, and there is no significant 
Present competition between any of its subsidiaries and the Auburn 
and Prichard Banks. In view of the distances separating the banks 
State laws restricting branching, it appears unlikely that any 
meaningful competition would develop between these offices in the 
future. It is the Board's opinion that the acquistion of Auburn 
and Prichard Banks by Applicant would have no adverse effect on 
exi-sting or potential competition, and would not tend to create 
a monopoly or in any manner be in restraint of trade in the 
relevant areas. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of 
Applicant and its present subsidiaries are considered to be satis-
factory, in view of Applicant's commitment to increase the capital 
P°sition of its subsidiaries. These same conditions are also deemed 
^ be satisfactory as pertain to the Auburn and Prichard Banks, 
future prospects for each appear favorable. Considerations 
Elating to the banking factors are consistent with approval of 
t h e applications. The banking needs of the relevant areas are 
L 
eing met at the present time. However, affiliation with Applicant 
^°uld enable both Auburn and Prichard Banks-to increase their • 
Ending capabilities and both banks would benefit from Applicant's 
e*Pertise and assistance in such services as marketing, trust, com-
pter services, and advertising. Considerations relating to the 

-4-
convenience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent 
vith approval of the applications. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed transactions would be in the public 
interest and that the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
f°r good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
A t l a n t a pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective AptH 19, 1973 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Mit 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
c h ell } Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

. 1286. 
1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
4/19/73 
FIRST NATIONAL BANKSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC. 
i 
Order Approving Acquisition of Two Banks 
and Denying Acquisition of Two Banks 
First National Bankshares of Florida, Inc., Pompano Beach, 
lorida, a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Co 
m p a n y 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
Ct (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting 
S h a r e s o f the following four Florida banks: 
(1) The Indian River Citrus 
tt 
» vero Beach ("Indian River Bank"); (2) The Westside Bank of Vero 
B^aok 
n> Vero Beach ("Westside Bank"), a newly chartered bank, (3) The Beach 
a n k of Vero Beach, Vero Beach 
("Beach Bank"); and (4) The Sebastian 
V e r Bank, Sebastian, ("Sebastian Bank"). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b\ 
' o f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
an<* th 
n e Board has considered the application and all comments received 
tn Xi8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
Although each of the applications has been separately considered 
ttle Board, because of the facts and circumstances common to the four 
aPpli 
Cations, this Order contains the Board's findings and conclusions 
respect to all four applications. 
Applicant controls four banks with aggregate deposits of 
°Ximately $145 million, representing 0.8 per cent of total deposits 
in c ommercial banks in Florida and it is the twenty-first largest banking 

. 1 2 b 7 
-2-
Of&nnJ 
, 
1/ 
i-Lzation in the State."" 
Applicant's acquisition of Indian River Bank 
^posits of $52 million), Westside Bank (a newly chartered bank), Beach 
Bank 
i 
increase its share of Statewide deposits to slightly more than 1 per 
(deposits of $13 million), and Sebastian Bank (deposits of $4.4 million) 
Would 
ent and change its rank among banking organizations in Florida to eighteenth. 
App^ 
t 
a n t s acquisition of only Indian River Bank and Westside Bank would 
increao 
d s e its share of Statewide deposits to approximately 1 per cent and 
would rank nineteenth among Florida banking organizations. Approval of 
all th 
ne proposed acquisitions would not result in any significant increase 
III 
e concentration of banking resources in Florida. 
The four banks involved are located in and serve the Indian River 
U n t y banking market. Applicant's closest existing subsidiary bank is 
locate approximately 100 miles from the market area involved and none of 
Ppli 
cant's present subsidiary banks compete to any significant extent with 
any 
the proposed subsidiary banks. Due to the distances separating the 
the number of banks in the intervening area, and Florida's 
lctions on branch banking, it is unlikely that any significant compe-
t e 
°n between Applicant's existing subsidiary banks and the proposed 
Varies would develop in the future. 
Beach Bank, controlling 14.4 per cent of deposits in the relevant 
» and Sebastian Bank, controlling approximately 5 per cent of deposits 
th 
e relevant market, are, respectively, the third and fourth largest of 
listing banks in that market. Beach Bank, Sebastian Bank and Westside 
e r e all organized under the auspices of Indian River Bank, which is 
A7 
data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding 
n y acquisitions and formations approved through December 31, 1972 

> __ j L £ 8 8 
-4-
largest of the four existing banks in the relevant market, controlling 
Proximately 58 per cent of deposits. Due to common share ownership, 
management, and interlocking director relationships among Indian 
V e r Bank, Beach Bank, and Sebastian Bank, there is little competition 
ln°n8 the three banks. Indian River Bank and its affiliates are the 
domj-. 
a nt banking organization in the market which is highly concentrated. 
Toggi-i 
e r, they control approximately 77 per cent of deposits in the market. 
there i only one other bank In the market. 
In addition to the four existing banks in the relevant market 
^estside Bank* another holding company has received approval to establish 
a de n 
bank in the market. Two applications by holding companies to 
charter a 
•SS. novo national banks in the market have recently been denied 
^ th 
e Comptroller of the Currency. Accordingly, de novo entry into the 
^tket K 
Dy other banking organizations seems foreclosed at present. There-
' ^Plicant Ts acquisition of all four banks would preclude entry by 
°ther b 
anking organizations into the Indian River County banking market, 
permanent the near monopoly that the Indian River Bank and Its 
ates enjoy in the market, and would foreclose the possibility of 
Potenti*i 
competition developing among any one or more of the four banks 
Under these circumstances, the Board does not believe that 
aPpr0Val 
a i of all four of the proposed acquisitions would be justified, under 
the 
standards of the Act, absent compelling considerations bearing upon 
the C Q 
nvenience and needs of the communities involved. 

_ 1289 
-5-
Although Applicant's acquisition of Indian River Bank would 
tegyl i. , 
in Applicant controlling the largest bank in the market, such 
C(luisition would also break the existing affiliation among the four banks 
result in a deconcentration of banking resources in the market. Since 
^Pplir 
-recant is presently the twenty-first largest of twenty-five existing 
ti°ldin 
n8 companies in Florida, it would appear preferable, from a competitive 
atl(iPoint, to permit a relatively small bank holding company to acquire 
w 
River Bank and thereby foster competition in the market and on a 
^dt 
atewide basis. Further, Applicant has committed that it will increase 
a n River Bank's capital by $1 million within six months from consummation 
°f the n 
Proposed acquisition and, therefore, banking factors lend weight 
approval of such acquisition. 
Applicant's acquisition of Beach Bank and Sebastian Bank, in 
additln 
o n to its acquisition of Indian River Bank, would have significant 
atiti 
•••competitive consequences. The existing affiliation among the banks 
V°uld h 
Decome more permanent within a holding company structure, deconcen-
ttation °r banking resources in the relevant market would become very 
ly* since it appears that there are significant barriers for entry 
into th 
n e market by other banking organizations, and the possibility of 
a 
leant competition developing among the three banks would be fore-
closed 
m, 
4 The acquisition by Applicant of Westside Bank, in addition to 
Hiver Bank, would not involve significant anticompetitive effects, 
sit\ce u 
westside Bank is a recently chartered bank that has not yet competed 
the market. 

_ 1290 
-5-
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its existing 
Subsidiary banks, and Banks are consistent with approval of all four appli-
Cations, particularly in view of Applicant's commitment to increase Indian 
Riv 
e r Bank's capital by $1 million within six months from consummation of 
Uch acquisition. However, financial and managerial considerations do not 
°utWeigh the anticompetitive effects involved in Applicant's proposals to 
C q U l r e Beach Bank and Sebastian Bank. Considerations relating to the 
lenience and needs of the communities to be served are also consistent 
W i t h aPProval of all four applications, but do not outweigh the previously 
cited adverse effects with respect to Beach Bank and Sebastian Bank. 
In summary, it is the Board's conclusion that approval of all 
aPPlications would have the effect of substantially foreclosing 
future 
competition in the Indian River County banking market. However, 
C q U i s i t ion of Indian River Bank and Westside Bank would be in the 
Publi 
i c interest since it would result in disaffilation of a near monopoly 
In *.i 
e market and promote deconcentration of banking resources in the 
Rtatk 
Accordingly, it is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
°P°sed acquisitions of Indian River Bank and Westside Bank would be in 
P u b H c interest and that those two applications should be approved; 
th 
a a t consummation of the proposed acquisitions of Beach Bank and 
S6ba 
stian Bank would not be in the public interest and that those two 
aPplio 
cations should be denied. 
On the basis of the record, the applications to acquire Beach 
and Sebastian Bank are denied and the applications to acquire Indian 
ank and Westside Bank are approved for the reasons summarized above. 

1291 
-3-
transactions involving Indian River Bank and Westside Bank shall not 
be c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date _/; . 
cnis Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and 
(C) The 
not later than six months after the effective date of this 
Westside Bank of Vero Beach, Vero Beach, Florida, shall be opened 
f°r business 
Orfc 
tach of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for 
0 d Cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant 
t0 ^legated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective April 19, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
&aane
 
8 f o r t h i s action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
» dimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 
Robertson, Mitchell, 

Item No. 4 
4/19/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Notice that Hearings on Individual Applications'to Engage in 
Insurance Agency Activit5.es are Public 
Notice is hereby given that the Board of Governors o£ the 
Fe<*eral Reserve System, in response to numerous requests from members 
^he publtc to attend the hearings directed by the Board Order of 
H a r c h <>> 1973 (38 Federal Register 6441), with respect to 22 applica-
tions by bank holding companies to engage in insurance agency 
*ctivitios, has ordered the hearings to be conducted as public 
brings. 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective April 19, 1973 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary c£ the Board 
fSEAL] 

F o r Immediate release 
April 19, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
Enounced a schedule of hearings, established by Administrative Law 
Jud2e Paul N. Pfeiffcr, cn. applications by bank holding companies to 
-uS<-ige in insurance agency activities. 
All the hearings will be open to the public. They will bo. 
COr^ucted by Judge Pfeiffer, v;ho was designated as hearing officer in 
th 
G natter by the Civil Service Commission. Requests for the hearings 
V,'r° rer'Cived frorr. insurance agents and agencies, and organizations 
s-Vresc-nting them, asserting that thov would be adversely affected by 
fitting bank holding companies to acquire or establish insurance 
Final decision cn the applications will I., made by the 
after considering the record and recommendations of the hearing 
Tile schedule of hearings follows: 
U -- Federal Reserve Branch, Jacksonville, 
P ] 
or'idv-it Applicants are Barnett Banks of Florida, Jacksonville, 
(two applications); Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York. 
Pa 
r Sank Corporation, Sarasota, Florida; and Pan American Banc share 
^ 
Florida, 
Week of Jun?. 25 -- Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Appli-
a re The Alabama Financial Group, Inc., Birmin-i.im, Alabama; 
Pifc-K .. 
N«Ulonal Holding Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia; and Citizens ana 
° r u Ho'idJ.n" Company, Atlanta, Georgia. 

Week of July 9_ -- Federal Reserve Board. Washington, D. C. 
pplicanto are Worcester Bancornoration, lac,, Worcester, Massachusetts; 
Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York; Pittsburgh national Corporation, 
^•'-tsburgh, Pennsylvania; and Dominion Bank shares Corporation, Roanoke, Va 
The following assignments are tentative: 
Week of September 10 -- Federal Reserve Bark of St. Louis, 
applicants are Financial Development: Corporation, Serthaven, Mississippi; 
Couu-y national Bancorporation, Clayton, Missouri; and NBC Company, 
l i v ^ \ n ) Nebraska, 
Week of September 17 
Federal Reserve Branch, Denver, 
OJ:orado. Applicant is The First National Bancorpoi. 'ion, Denver, 
Coloracio. 
Week of September ?A -- San Diego, Califoi 
s. Applicants 
}'G f^tagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona; and Scathern California 
J-i.st National Corporation, San Diego, California. 
Week of September 27 -- Federal Reserve Branch, Seattle, 
Vjtt gTi • 
lir>Stcm. Applicants are Orbanco, Inc., Port]and, Oregon; and 
^io r 
Bancorporation, Seattle, Washington. 
The exact time and place of:: each hearing v'll be designated 
h y Judge Pfeiffer. This information will be availal ie at the Federal 
e-s0rvci Bank or Branch involved. 
- 0 -
i 

1295 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F t h e 
item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 4/19/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R K E S P O N C E f 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
A p r i l 23, 1973 
The Honorable George P. Shultz 
Secreta?jy of the Treasury 
U. S. Department of Treasury 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
Letters have been received (copies attached) by Andrew 
Brimmer, Member of the Board of Governors, from Stephen Tolbert, 
Minister of Finance of the Republic of Liberia, requesting that 
the Federal Reserve System establish a currency depository in 
Monrovia to facilitate, the management of U. S. currency which 
circulates as the official currency of Liberia. 
The Liberian 
Proposal suggests that expenses incurred in the shipment, insur-
ance, and. destruction of the currency be borne by the Federal 
Reserve. This matter was subsequently referred to the Board by 
Governor Brimmer for determination. 
A review of the related statutes has indicated that the 
federal Reserve Banks have the authority to establish agencies in 
foreign countries only for the express purpose of purchasing, 
selling, or collecting bills of exchange; and that they have the 
Authority to bear the costs of shipping U. S. currency to or from 
3 foreign country only when such shipments are necessary to carry 
°n the business of banking as contemplated by the Federal Reserve 
A c t or other pertinent statutes. The link between the condition 
U. S. currency circulating in Liberia and the responsibilities 
of the Federal Reserve System is, at best, fragile, and the Board 
therefore not inclined to aoprove any part of the Liberian 
request. 
However, because of the role of the Treasury in the 
ssuance, retirement, and destruction of the currency, the Board 
^ould like to request guidance from you before final disposition 
the matter is made. 
Your consideration is, therfore., invited, 
arid any comments you would care to forward would be appreciated 

_ 1296 
The Honorable George P. Shultz 
-2- 
April 23, 1973 
at an early date so that we may respond to Mr. Tolbert's correspon-
dence in a timely manner. 
A similar request for guidance is being sent to the 
Department of State. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enc 1 osures 
