MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 7, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Amendment to Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks. 

3500 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, September 7, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 2:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Director for Management, 
Office of Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss i Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously denied a request for 
^consideration of its denial, on May 29, 1973, of the application of 
i/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

3501 
9/7/73 
-2-
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Deland State Bank, Deland, Florida. The Board authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its approval, 
0 n August 9, 1973, of the application of Financial Data Systems, Inc., 
Detroit, Michigan, to become a bank holding company through acquisition 
shares of Bank of the Commonwealth, also of Detroit. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a request by the Federal Reserve 
Uank of Richmond for an additional authorization of $160,000 for electrical 
system changes and an Uninterruptible Power Service system for the 
Culpeper Communications and Records Center. A copy of the letter sent to 
the Richmond Bank is attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Report on activities of Coordinating Committee. Governor Mitchell 
Presented a brief report on matters pending before the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. Governor Mitchell referred 
t o the recent action by Congress in passing legislation, enacted on 
August 16, 1973, that would make it permissible for financial institutions 
iri Massachusetts and New Hampshire to offer accounts subject to negotiable 
orders of withdrawal (NOW accounts), and he said that the Coordinating 
Committee was considering a possible uniform regulatory approach to 
SUch accounts. 

3502 
9/7/73 
-3-
Discount rates. On September 6, 1973, the boards of directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Chicago had voted to 
establish, subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, 
rates of 8 per cent on their loans to member banks under sections 13 
and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. The current rate at all Reserve Banks 
was 7-1/2 per cent. The directors had also acted to establish correspon-
dingly higher rates on advances under other sections of the Act. 
The staff reported that the latest data suggested further slowing 
in the growth of the monetary aggregates. For the August-September 
period, growth in M-j_ and M2 was now expected to fall somewhat under the 
lower limits of the ranges of tolerance specified by the Federal Open 
Market Committee at its August 21 meeting. 
The Board members agreed that an increase in the discount rate 
would not represent a timely action today, especially if the Board also 
acted to raise marginal reserve requirements on large-denomination 
certificates of deposit. Individual Board members suggested, however, 
that the grounds for a disapproval did not appear to be persuasive at 
this time, and it was also noted that the Board might find it desirable 
t o raise the rate in the relatively near future. Accordingly, it was 
SSreed that a decision on the discount rate actions of the two Reserve 
^anks would be deferred in order to provide an opportunity for a further 
assessment of monetary and market developments. It was understood that 
the Secretary would inform the Presidents of the New York and Chicago 

3503 
9/7/73 
-4-
Banks of the Board's decision and that he would stress to them the 
need for continued confidentiality. 
Other discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco on August 30 and September 6, by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and Atlanta on September 4, and by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on September 6, 1973, of the rates 
°n advances and discounts in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
Amendment to Regulation D. The Board today continued its 
consideration of a proposed amendment to Regulation D, Reserves of 
Member Banks, that would increase marginal reserve requirements on 
certain types of time deposits and related instruments by 3 percentage 
Points; this matter had been discussed by the Board on September 4 and 
5> 1973. 
On the basis of conversations with members of the Federal 
Advisory Council and other bankers, Governors Sheehan and Bucher expressed 
the opinion that bankers are increasingly practicing self-restraint in 
issuance of large-denomination certificates of deposit and in the 
granting of credit to business firms. They felt that such restraint, 
c°upled with the restraints of monetary policy that are already in 
effect, was sufficient under current conditions, and that a change in 

9/7/73 
-5-
the marginal reserve requirement would not be appropriate at this time. 
During the course of the discussion, a consensus developed for taking 
action today to increase the marginal reserve requirement. It was felt 
that this action could be reversed promptly if subsequent events should 
so warrant. 
The Board approved the amendment to Regulation D, effective 
September 20, 1973, Governors Sheehan and Bucher dissenting, and authorized 
issuance of a press release, with changes in wording, and Federal Register 
notice to this effect. Copies are attached under Item No. 4. 
In a related action, the Board considered a suggestion, contained 
in a letter dated August 8, 1973, from Mr. Debs of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, that banks be given the option of using the average 
level of large CD's held during the four weeks ending May 16, 1973, 
instead of the level outstanding in the one-week period ending May 16, 
1973, as the base in computing marginal reserve requirements. The Board 
-SjS^eed. not to adopt the optional CD base. A copy of the letter sent to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is attached as Item No. 5. 
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting at this point, as did 
a H staff members except Messrs. Feldberg, O'Connell, and Leavitt. 
Problem bank. Mr. Leavitt reviewed the matters discussed in his 
Memorandum of September 6, 1973, regarding the status of United States 
National Bank, San Diego, California, noting that the Comptroller of the 
the Currency, by letter dated September 6, 1973, had declared that ultimate 
failure of the bank was probable, and he reported on efforts being made 

3505 
9/7/73 
-6-
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to sell the bank. A discus-
sion followed, during which consideration was given to the propriety 
°f making Federal Reserve credit assistance available to United States 
National Bank under current circumstances. At the conclusion of the 
discussion, it was understood that Governor Bucher would discuss this 
general subject with Chairman Wille of the FDIC and convey the Board's 
concern regarding the need for prompt and effective action. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3506 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
9/7/73 
Order Denying Request for Reconsideration 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, has requested 
^consideration of the Order of the Board of Governors dated May 29, 1973 
hereby the Board denied the application of Southeast Banking Corporation 
to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Deland State Bank, 
Deland, Florida, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)). 
Pursuant to § 262.3(g)(5) of the Board's Rules, Applicant requests 
Consideration of its original proposal. The Board finds that the request 
f°r reconsideration does not present substantially new facts or issues which 
Would appear appropriate in the public interest for the Board to consider. 
Ac 
c°rdingly, the Board concludes that the request for reconsideration is 
her*by denied. 
n 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective September 10, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
S i t i n g for this action: Chai-man Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
nan, Bucher and Holland. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

3507 
Item No. 2 
9/7/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FINANCIAL DATA SYSTEMS, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Financial Data Systems, Inc., Detroit, Michigan, has applied 
fo* the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 33 per cent of the common shares and 54 per cent of the 
Emulative preferred shares, of Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, 
IIichi3an ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Parsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
t h e Board has considered those received and the application in light of 
tha factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, recently organized for the purpose of becoming a bank 
hiding company and engaging in the provision of financial data processing 
Services, has engaged in no business activities and has no subsidiaries. 
(deposits of $886.7 million) is the fifth largest of 47 banking 
Or8ani2ations in the Detroit area, accounting for six per cent of the 
aggregate deposits held by those organizations. (All data are as of 
Member 31, 1972, unless otherwise indicated). The transaction is merely 
a ^organization whereby James T. Barnes who controls Bank directly at 
ttle present time will control Bank indirectly through Applicant. 
^caordingly, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposal will 

3508 
-2-
n°t eliminate any existing or potential competition in banking, increase 
concentration of banking resources, or have an u.<iJue adverse effect on 
the other banks in the relevant area. Mr. Barnes has controlling interests 
in several local or locally-based mortgage banking, and other financial, 
concerns, but consummation of the proposed transaction per se would not 
affec.t the competitive relationships between Bank and those concerns 
since Bank will be affiliated with those concerns irrespective of Board 
action on this application. The Board in considering this application 
h a s considered the competitive effects of Mr. Barnes1 common interests 
i n Bank and other Detroit-based institutions and found them to be not 
sl8nificantly adverse. 
As has been widely reported in the press and otherwise, Bank 
suffered serious financial reversals under its previous management. 
These financial difficulties necessitated an assistance program from 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("the FDIC"), whereby the FDIC in an 
agreement dated January 1 8 > i 9 7 2 w i t h Bank, agreed to provide capital to 
Bank up to a maximum amount of $60 million. As of July 31, 1973, 
$35.5 million of capital notes had been issued pursuant to that agreement. 
The purpose of the capital assistance program was to enable 
^ank to realize certain losses, principally market losses from the sale 
long-term investment securities. Bank has disposed of the major 
of these securities and, as a result, is in a much improved 
^quidity position. 

3509 
-3-
As a result of foreclosure on loans then outstanding, The 
chaae Manhattan Bank, N.A., New York, New York, ("Chase") acquired 
control of Bank in February, 1971, but, in accordance with the provisions 
o f section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act, was required to divest 
itself of its interests in Bank within two years. In 1972, Chase's 
interests in Bank were sold to Mr. Barnes. Under the Chase and Barnes 
c^nership, new policies designed to improve Bank's condition, were 
instituted. 
In summary, Bank is in the process of attempting to regain 
its posture as a viable and competitive institution. The Board believes 
that it is in the public interest to maintain control of Bank in the 
hands of local interests of good repute and that approval of this 
aPPlication would aid present management in this regard. 
The management, financial condition, and prospects of Applicant 
a r e all consistent with approval of the application. Applicant would 
incur substantial debt in order to make the proposed acquisition, 
however, as the Board has previously noted, acquisition debt must be 
considered in light of an applicant's ability to service that debt without 
tersely affecting the capital structure of its subsidiary bank. 

3510 
-4~ 
Since Bank is presently prohibited from declaring 
dividends without approval of supervisory agencies and, under agreement 
vith the FDIC referred to above, is prohibited from entering into 
transactions with its directors, officers, or principal stockholders, 
there is no likelihood that Applicant will utilize Bank's resources to 
service its acquisition debt. Instead, Applicant expects to retire 
that debt by utilizing its own earnings from the provision of data 
processing services and from advances from its shareholders. 
In the Board's view, consummation of the proposed transaction 
w°uld serve to reinforce efforts to restore Bank to a sound and firm 
financial and competitive condition. To the extent such efforts succeed, 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served would be promoted 
ky the renewed presence of Bank as both a ready source of banking 
Services and a competitive force in the Detroit area. The Board finds 
that any anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
i. 
6 served. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
w°nld be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
aPproved. 

3511. 
-5-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order, or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective September n t 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
, Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns. 

3512 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
O F The 
Item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9 / 7 / 7 3 
\ *• 
tt'i^j5; 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
IXM\ r' 
y^A?; 
ADDHES5 orrtCIAL CQRRtSPaNDENCE 
r 
' 
TO THE BOARD 
sf;.-
September 10, 1973 
Mr. Robert P. Black, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 23261 
Dear Mr. Black: 
In response to your letter of August 10, 1973, the 
Board approves an additional authorization of $160,000 to be 
expended for electrical modification work and the Uninterrupt-
ible Power Service system proposed for the Culpeper Communica-
tions and Records Center. With this approval5 it is understood 
that the entire project will not excecd a total cost of $550>000. 
The Bank is authorized to sign a contract for the electrical 
work and commence work as soon as practicable. 
Very truly yours. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary 

Item No. 4 
9/7/73 
Immediate release 
September 7, 1973 
In a further move to curb the rapid expansion in bank credit, the 
of Governors of; the Federal Reserve System today announced an increase 
l t s marginal reserve requirements on large denomination certificates of 
dePosit# 
The action will increase the marginal reserve requirement from S per 
L t:o 11 per cent, effective September 20. 
The growth this year in bank crcdit has been financed in large 
Pay f» • 
DV bank sales of certificates of deposit of $100,000 and over, and 
®in\i i money market instruments. Total bank loans have increased at a more 
20 per c e nt annual rate since mid year and bank loans to business firms 
liQVe i 
lllc.reased even more rapidly during this interval. 
On May 16, the Board imposed an 8 per cent marginal reserve 
^u^o.ment (the regular 5 per cent plus a supplemental 3 per cent) on 
fu* M. 
e r increases in (1) time deposits in denominations of $100,000 and 
°ver 
, 
ahci (2) bank-related commercial paper. Similar reserve requirements 
subsequently applied to funds raised by banks through the sale of 
fiftance bills. 
Banks have been required to maintain this added reserve requirement 
m i l nS with the week of June 21-27, based on total deposit levels two 
e&i.*lier. The marginal reserve does not apply to deposits of these 
tyPcs f 
staling less than 
0 million, which are still subject to the regular 
• Requirement. 

351 
? -
The 13. per cent marginal reserve requirement (the regular 5 per 
Ccnt plus a supplemental G per cent) will apply to increases in the level 
Of iff 
^•c^ected deposits since the week ending Hay 16. 
Since that time, commercial banks have increased their holdings 
1 W g e CDs, bank-relatecl commercial paper and finance bills by about $15 
'^lion,. An increase in the marginal reserve requirement to 11 per cent 
;°uld mean that banks with these deposits would be required to maintain 
°ut $450 million in additional reserve requirements. 
Member banks will be required to maintain the 11 per cent marginal 
requirement during the week of October 4-10, based on deposit 
two weeks earlier (the week of September 20-26), 
A copy of the Board's order relating to this matter is attached. 

3515 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER XI—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Reserve Per centages 
On May 16, the Board of Governors established an 8 per cent 
^-ginaX reserve requirement against certain selected classes of time 
dePoaits. 30 Federal Register 13726, The classes of time deposits 
fchat are subject to the marginal reserve requirement were changed in 
some respects on July 16. 38 Federal Register 19903. These actions 
v«re taken pursuant to the Board's authority under section 19 of the 
federal Reserve Act: (J 2 U.S.C. § 461) to set reserve ratios for 
Prober banks. 
The Board has decided to increase the marginal reserve re-
rjtlfoment from 8 to 11 per cent, subject to the proviso that in no 
Gvcmt shall the reserves required of a member bank on its aggregate 
ail°Urlt of time and savings deposits exceed 10 per cent. 
There, was no notice and public participation with respect 
'-his amendment since such procedure would result in delay that 
7°uld be contrary to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
0 affective date was not deferred for the 30-day period referred 
to ^ section 553(d) of Title 5, United States Code, because the 
iiQard found that the general credit situation and the public interest 

-2-
cornpelled it to make the action effective no later than the day adopted. 
see § 262.2(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure, 12 CFR § 262.2(e). 
Effective October 4, 1973, section 204.5(a)(1)(ii) and (2)(ii) 
Regulation D is amended to read as follows: 
^ ^^^•5 Reserve Requirements. 
(a) Reserve percentages. Pursuant to the provisions of 
^-etion 19 of the Federal Reserve Act and § 204.2(a) and subject to 
Paragraph (c) of this section, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
eserve System hereby prescribes the following reserve balances that 
each member ban!; of the Federal Reserve System is required to maintain 
° n deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank of its district: 
(1) If not in a reserve city— 
i< 
* ft 
(ii) 3 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 million, 
Plus 5 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million: Provided. 
iSHgVer, That a member bank shall maintain a reserve balance equal to 
1] 
Per cent of the amount by which the daily average amount of time 
pPosits of the types hereinafter specified exceeds either the daily 
Verage amount: of such time deposits outstanding during the computation 
p eUod ending May 16, 1973, or $10 million, whichever is greater, and 
11 per cent reserve percentage shall apply with respect to time 
P°3its of the following types: 
(a) time deposits of $100,000 or more; and 
(b) time deposits represented by promissory 
notes, acknowledgments of advance, due bills, or 

3517 
similar obligations issued by a member bank's 
affiliate, as provided in 5 204.1(f); and 
(e) time deposits represented by bank 
acceptances, as provided in 5 204.1(f); 
&ov;Lded further, That in no event shall the reserves required on its 
EEregate amount of time and savings deposits exceed 10 per cent; and 
* 
* 
* 
(2) If in a reserve city (except as to any bank located in 
a city that is permitted by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
v nerve System, pursuant to 5 204.2(a)(2), to maintain the reserves 
GPkoifiec] in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph) — 
A* 
"A- 
>V 
(ii) 3 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 million, 
P l b y 5 P e r cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million: Provided, 
ho 
^ c v e r , That a member batik shall maintain a reserve balance equal to 
1 Per cent of the amount by which the daily average amount of time 
Posits of the types hereinafter specified exceeds either the daily 
aver-
amount of such time deposits outstanding during the computation 
pc*icd ending May 16, 1973, or $10 million, whichever is greater, and 
per cent reserve percentage shall apply with respect to time 
Such X| 
depoo.'. or the following types: 
(a) tine deposits of $100,000 or more; and 
(b) time deposits represented by promissory 
notes, acknowledgements of advance, due bills, or 

-4-
similar obligations issued by a member bank's 
affiliate, as provided in § 204.1(f); and 
(c) time deposits represented by bank accept-
a 
anceo, as provided in § 204.1(f); 
fefiylied. further> That in no event shall the reserves? required on 
s aggregate amount of time and savings deposits exceed 10 per cent 
and 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 7, 1973, 
(signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E, Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

0 / 
\ </• 
>-. ' : . 
3519 
B O A R D D F G • V E R N D R 3 
• r THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
9/7/73 
OFFICIAL CORHESPOfJDENCE 
TC THE IIDARD 
September 12, 1973 
Mr. Richard A. Debs 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York • 
New York, New York 10045 
Dear Dick: 
This is in reply to your letter of August 8, 1973, to 
Governor Holland in which you endorsed a possible further increase 
in marginal reserve requirements on large denomination certificates 
°f deposit, and further suggested that consideration be given to 
allowing banks the option of using a four-week average in calculat-
ing their reserve bases to alleviate certain inequities resulting 
from the selection of the week of May 16 as the base week. 
In the course of its deliberations last week regarding 
an increase in marginal reserve requirements, the Board al.so con-
sidered your suggestion for a change in the reserve-base calculation, 
While the Board concluded that such a change would not be desirable 
at the present time, the Board appreciated having had the benefit 
the thinking of the New York Reserve Bank on this matter. 
Yours sincerely, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
