MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 6, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Emergency credit for nonmember 
depositary institutions. 

3119 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 6, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Metzger, Assistant to the Executive Director, 
Office of Executive Director 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Emergency lending. On August 16, 1973, the Board approved 
in principle a plan for emergency lending to the savings and loan 
industry, preparatory to discussions with representatives of the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board and other members of the Interagency Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation, and with officers of the Federal Reserve 
1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

31d0 
9/6/73 
-2-
Banks. In a memorandum of September 4, 1973, the Federal Reserve 
Credit Committee stated that on the basis of those consultations 
the plan had been revised in detail, although not in principle. In 
addition, existing plans for emergency lending to other depositary 
institutions had been brought up to date in the light of the April 
1973 changes in Regulation A, Extensions of Credit by Federal Reserve 
Banks. Copies of the revised plans were attached to the memorandum. 
The Committee requested that the Board approve the plans and authorize 
Reserve Bank lending in accordance with them, A draft letter to the 
Reserve Banks that would reflect authorization by the Board was also 
attached. Other documentation included a memorandum of August 31, 
1973, in which the Division of Research and Statistics reviewed 
developments since mid-year at savings and loan associations and 
mutual savings banks. 
A principal issue considered during discussion at today's 
meeting related to the fact that authorization to the Federal Reserve 
Banks to implement the plans would require, insofar as the authority 
in the third paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act would 
be used, a determination by the affirmative vote of at least five 
members of the Board that unusual and exigent circumstances existed. 
The tenor of comments indicated unwillingness to make such a deter-
mination at the present time. It was agreed that, if the revised plans 

9/6/73 
-3-
were approved in principle, they might be set in place by transmission 
to the Federal Reserve Banks with a caveat that activation would require 
further action by the Board. 
Discussion also developed agreement on some revisions in the 
specification of circumstances under which Federal Reserve credit 
would be made available and in administrative arrangements. Although 
the view was expressed that an interest rate two percentage points 
above the discount rate might be appropriate for such extensions of 
credit, there was agreement that a rate need not be set unless the 
plans were activated. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the plans, with the further 
revisions agreed upon today, were approved in principle. Copies of 
the plans are attached under Item No. 1, along with the letter transmit-
ting them to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
It was understood that copies 
would be made available also to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and 
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Director appointments. The following actions were taken with 
respect to the appointment of Chairmen, Deputy Chairmen, and Class C 
directors at Federal Reserve Banks, with the understanding that advice 
of the appointments would be sent to the respective appointees at an 
appropriate time and that public announcement would be made near the 
end of the year: 

4 t 1 * *o 
O* Jc^/C 
9/6/73 
-4-
The following were reappointed as Class G directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks indicated, each for a three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1974: 
Name 
Bank 
John R. Coleman 
Philadelphia 
Robert T. Person 
Kansas City 
John Lawrence 
Dallas 
The following were designated as Chairmen and Federal Reserve 
Agents of the Federal Reserve Banks indicated for the year 
1974, with compensation fixed at an amount equal to the fees 
that would be payable to any other director of the same Bank 
for equivalent time and attendance to official business: 
Name 
Bank 
James S. Duesenberry 
Boston 
Roswell L. Gilpatric 
New York 
John R. Coleman 
Philadelphia 
Horace A. Shepard 
Cleveland 
Robert W. Lawson, Jr. 
Richmond 
H. G. Pattillo 
Atlanta 
William H. Franklin 
Chicago 
Frederic M. Peirce 
' 
St. Louis 
Bruce B. Dayton 
Minneapolis 
Robert W. Wagstaff 
Kansas City 
John Lawrence 
Dallas 
The following were appointed as Deputy Chairmen of the 
Federal Reserve Banks indicated for the year 1974: 
Name 
Bank 
Louis W. Cabot 
Boston 
Frank R. Milliken 
New York 
Edward J. Dwyer 
Philadelphia 
Peter B. Clark 
Chicago 
Sam Cooper 
St. Louis 
Robert T. Person 
Kansas City 
It was agreed to ascertain through the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis whether Mr. James P. McFarland, Chairman and Chief 

*} 1' 
O ' 4(V>u 
9/6/73 
-5-
Executive Officer, General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, would 
accept appointment if tendered as a Class C director of the Minneapolis 
Reserve Bank for a three-year term beginning January 1, 1974. It was 
understood that, if he accepted the appointment, Mr. McFarland would 
be appointed also as Deputy Chairman of the Reserve Bank for 1974. 
(It having been ascertained that Mr. McFarland would accept, he was 
informed by telegram that the appointments as director and as Deputy 
Chairman for 1974 had been made.) 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting, as did all 
staff members except Messrs. Melnicoff and Feldberg. 
Governor Holland reported that three members of the staff 
of the Legal Division had submitted their resignations, and he commented 
on the steps being taken to limit their participation in Board meetings 
during the remainder of their service with the Board. 
Steering Committee member. Pursuant to the recommendation 
of Governor Mitchell in a memorandum of September 4, 1973, the Board 
unanimously approved the appointment of Richard A. Debs, First Vice 
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as a member of the 
Sys tem Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism to succeed 
Mr. Treiber, who had retired. A copy of the letter sent to Mr. Debs 
•ls attached as Item No. 2. (In the form in which it was approved, the 
letter reflected agreed-upon changes in a draft that had been prepared.) 

3424. 
9/6/73 
-6-
Staff members having responsibility for the matters described 
in the remainder of these minutes then returned to the meeting. 
Report on mobilization activities. Governor Brimmer had 
distributed to the Board, with a memorandum of August 28, 1973, a 
proposed report to the Joint Committee on Defense Production regarding 
the mobilization activities of the Board and the Federal Reserve Banks, 
and a draft of transmittal letter to Chairman Sparkman of the Committee. 
After a discussion during which a change in the letter was 
agreed upon, the report and letter were approved unanimously. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. A copy of the report has 
been placed in the Board's files. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tions of National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan; Security Pacific 
International Bank, New York, New York; Security Pacific Overseas Corp., 
Los Angeles, California; and Wells Fargo Bank International, New York, 
New York, to continue to hold shares of Western American Bank (Europe) 
Limited, London, England, after it acquires shares of Medens Trust 
Limited, Newport, Isle of Wight, England. Copies of the letters sent 
to the applicants are attached as Items 4-7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Fort 
Worth National Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, to acquire shares of 
Levelland State Bank, Levelland, Texas, and authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 8. 

1» »r-
O ' l ^ O 
9/6/73 
-7-
Action on the application of The Fort Worth National Corpora-
tion to acquire shares of Levelland State Bank was not taken by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas under delegated authority because an 
officer of the applicant was a member of the Federal Advisory Council. 
It was agreed that, until further notice, authority to approve merger 
and bank holding company applications on behalf of the Board would 
not be delegated to the Federal Reserve Banks in cases in which a 
senior officer of a merging bank or of a subsidiary bank of the holding 
company is a member of the Federal Advisory Council. This supplemented 
instructions given to the Reserve Banks in April 1973 regarding cases 
in which an officer or director of the applicant or any of its subsid-
iaries is a director of a Federal Reserve Bank or branch. A copy of 
the letter advising the Reserve Banks of this new instruction is 
attached as Item No. 9. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter responding to the 
request of the Office of Management and Budget for the Board's views 
legislative recommendations made by the National Credit Union 
Administration. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 10. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Republic National Bank of Dallas. The Board had held a number 
°f discussions regarding the extent to which Republic National Bank 
Dallas, Dallas, Texas, a bank holding company, was entitled to 
"grandfather privileges" under the Bank Holding Company Act. A deter-
mination with respect to six direct nonbanking subsidiaries was issued 

9/6/73 
-8-
by the Board on July 13, 1973. The remaining questions centered on 
the relationship between the bank and its trusteed affiliate, Howard 
Corporation, also of Dallas. Most recent discussions had been held 
on August 29 and 31, 1973. On the latter date the Board reached 
general agreement regarding the scope of grandfather privileges to 
which the bank was entitled with respect to the nonbanking activities 
of Howard Corporation. The Legal Division had drafted a determina-
tion reflecting that agreement. 
After discussion, the Board authorized issuance of the deter-
mination. A copy is attached as Item No. 11. 
Republic of Texas Corporation, Dallas, Texas, had filed an 
application to become a bank holding company by acquiring all of the 
shares of the successor by merger to Republic National Bank of Dallas, 
and had requested that the Board determine that, if the transaction 
were consummated, the new corporation would be regarded as a "successor" 
bank holding company to Republic National Bank and therefore entitled 
to whatever grandfather privileges that bank might have. At the meeting 
on August 31, 1973, in accordance with the recommendation of the Legal 
Division, the Board agreed to take the position that Republic of Texas 
Corporation would not be entitled to successor rights. A draft letter 
reflecting a negative conclusion regarding the successorship question 
had been distributed. 

3 4 2 7 
9/6/73 
-9-
Discussion at today's meeting resulted in agreement upon 
several changes in the draft, after which the letter was unanimously 
approved in the form attached as Item No. 12. 
Congressional testimony. The staff had drafted a statement 
relating to legislative proposals for regulating clearing agencies 
and transfer agents, to be presented by Mr. Solomon on September 12, 
1973, before the Subcommittee on Commerce and Finance of the House 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce. 
(The Board had discussed 
related questions on July 12 and 24, 1973.) 
After a discussion during which a number of changes were 
suggested, it was understood that the statement would be revised 
to reflect the views expressed and would be presented in a final 
form satisfactory to Mr. Solomon. A copyof the statement in the form 
in which it was presented has been placed in the Board's files. 
Southern Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum of July 31, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Division of Research 
and Statistics recommended approval of the applications of Southern Bancor-
poration, Inc., Greenville, South Carolina, (1) to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to 
Southern Bank and Trust Company, also of Greenville; and (2) to acquire 
shares of the successors by merger to World Acceptance Corporation, 
SBT Real Estate, Inc., and Piedmont Premium Service, Inc., all of 
Greenville. A draft order reflected the favorable recommendation. 
In 

3 1 2 8 
9/6/73 
-10-
a memorandum of August 30, 1973, the Legal Division referred to a 
discussion by the Board on August 29 regarding a bank holding company 
application that involved a covenant not to compete, and suggested 
language to be added to the draft order with respect to the applications 
of Southern Bancorporation indicating that the covenants associated with 
the proposed acquisition of World Acceptance Corporation and Piedmont 
Premium Service were reasonable in scope, duration,and geographic area 
and were consistent with the public interest. 
After discussion, the applications with respect to Southern 
Bank and Trust Company and SBT Real Estate were approved unanimously; 
and the applications with respect to World Acceptance Corporation and 
Piedmont Premium Service were approved, Governors Mitchell and Brimmer 
dissenting because of the use of the covenants not to compete. The 
Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its decisions. A 
copy is attached under Item No. 13, along with a copy of Governor 
Brimmer's dissenting statement. 
Coin wrapping service. In a memorandum of August 27, 1973, 
the Executive Committee on Cost Improvement recommended that outstand-
ing instructions to the Federal Reserve Banks be modified so as to 
preclude continued extension of coin wrapping service outside of 
Districts where it was now provided, except where there were compelling 

9/6/73 
-11-
member bank relations problems, and to encourage the entry of private 
industry into provision of this service. An attached draft letter 
would provide for re-examination of coin wrapping charges with the 
aim of recovering full costs, allow for the continuance of service 
where provided at present, limit extension of service where compelling 
member bank relations problems did not exist, and rescind the provision 
requiring uniform coin wrapping service. 
Discussion included expression of views that additional 
members of the Board should participate in a decision regarding this 
problem, and that background information should be provided to put 
into better focus the Board's present stance on the question. Action 
was therefore deferred. 
All staff members then withdrew except Messrs. Melnicoff and 
Feldberg. Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International Finance, 
joined the meeting at this point. 
Officer promotions. In connection with a reorganization of 
the Division of International Finance that had recently been approved 
by Governor Holland, and pursuant to recommendations by Governor Holland 
m a memorandum of September 5, 1973, Mrs. Helen B. Junz, Assistant 
Adviser, was appointed as Associate Adviser in the Division, with an 
annual salary of $34,000; and Mr. George B. Henry, Assistant Adviser, 

< 3 4 3 0 
9/6/73 
-12-
was appointed as Associate Adviser in the Division, with an annual 
salary of $31,500. These appointment were made effective September 10, 
1973. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3131 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
I
T
E
M 
N O - 
1 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
9 / 6 / 7 3 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 7, 1973 
CONFIDENTIAL (PR) 
The Board has approved in principle guidelines for 
emergency lending in the form attached to this letter. 
The Board did not: authorize emergency lending at this 
time. The guidelines should be considered to be in place, to be 
activated by Board action, if needed. 
Discussions between Reserve Bank and Home Loan Dank 
representatives should be delayed until the Board, in consul-
tation with the Home Loan Bank Board, advises you that discus-
sions are desirable. 
Yours sincerely, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
Attachment 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

. 3-1, 
ATTACHMENT A 
Plan for Emergency Assistance to Savings 
and Loan Associations and Other 
Members of the Home Loan Bank System 
The Board recognizes the special role of the Federal Home 
Loan Bank System vis-a-vis the savings and loan industry.- 
It 
believes it desirable, 
for public policy purpsoes, that Federal Reserve 
emergency assistance to savings and loan associations be channeled 
through the FHLB System. The procedures for such assistance outlined 
below have been designed so as to be consistent with the principles 
underlying Federal Reserve emergency assistance to nonmeinbers and yet 
Permit the FHLB System maximum freedom in discharging its independent 
responsibilities. 
Because the FHLB System bears primary responsibility for 
lending to savings and loan associations, the Federal Reserve will not 
expect to extend credit for the use of savings and loans until the FHLB's 
have largely exhausted their resources for such purposes. The extension 
°f credit by the Federal Reserve to the industry will be viewed as a 
temporary stopgap measure, such assistance being ended as soon as it is 
Practicable for the FHLB System to resume full responsibility for its 
nornial supportive role. 
Loans made by the Federal Reserve will, therefor 
carry short maturities, with increasing surveillance by the Federal 
Reserve in the event that renewals prove necessary. 
Upon a finding of unusual or exigent circumstances by at least 
f i ve members, the Board of Governors will authorize Federal Reserve Banks 
y 
For the purposes of this plan, certain other savings institutions 
which are members of the Home Loan Bank System ar.e included in the 
arr mremenl"s tor savings and loan associations, 
emergency arrangement 

3433 
-ii-
to discount notes of Federal Home Loan Banks in accordance with the 
following principles and procedures. 
1) The Federal Reserve will extend emergency credit 
assistance only after the Federal Home Loan Bank 
System has largely exhausted other sources of funds. 
(a) The FHLB System will be expected to utilize 
as much of its available liquid assets as is 
prudent under the circumstances. 
(b) The FHLB System will be expected to make every 
possible effort to raise the funds it needs 
through sales of its debt obligations to the 
public, including, insofar as is practicable, 
borrowings from commercial banks. 
(c) The FHLB System will be expected to draw fully 
upon its line of credit at the Treasury, except 
that this requirement may be waived for cause, 
upon written notice from the Treasury. 
2) Funds provided by the Federal Reserve will be used only 
to assist savings and loans which are, after reasonable 
effort at internal adjustment and at obtaining funds from 
commercial banks and other sources, encountering great 
difficulty in meeting requests for savings withdrawals 
or takedowns of outstanding firm mortgage commitments. 
During any periods in which Federal Reserve credit 

3434 
-ii-
has been extended for emergency assistance to 
member institutions, the FHLB System will be 
expected to limit additional advances to savings 
and loans to the minimum amounts consistent with 
the essential requirements of public policy. 
The general procedures for Federal Reserve Bank loans 
to FHLB1s will be as follows: 
(a) Credit will be extended to the Federal Home Loan Bank 
against the promissory note of the FHLB secured by 
notes of savings and loan associations satisfactory 
to the individual Federal Reserve Bank. 
(b) The note will be drawn to mature in no more than 
30 days. Renewal will be considered only if the FHLB 
System has been unable to' raise necessary funds 
from other sources and if conditions at savings and 
loans justify continued assistance. Such renewals 
will be contingent upon assurances that the FHLB 
System is taking actions that can reasonably be 
expected to eliminate the need for Federal Reserve 
assistance within an acceptable period of time. 
(c) The note will be discounted at a rate established 
by the Federal Reserve Bank equal to the 

•Pi-
rate applicable to advances under the last 
paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
(d) The FHLB System will accept responsibility for 
lending to savings and loan associations that are 
not members of the FHLB System, that are 
encountering problems warranting emergency 
assistance, and that are prepared to take 
appropriate remedial actions as specified by the 
FHLB System. It is assumed that such advances 
will be made under the same conditions and on the 
same terms as those to member savings and loan 
associations. 
Advance Preparation 
1) To facilitate the handling of applications for credit, 
each Federal Preserve Bank with a Home Loan Bank in its 
district will obtain in advance of any emergency 
lending: 
(a) a borrowing resolution from the Home Loan Bank, 
similar to the resolution executed by nember banks 
in the district. 

"5" 
,. 3 4 3 B 
(b) an agreement with respect to the pledging of 
notes of individual savings and loan associations 
as security for the note of the Hone Loan Bank. 
2) The System Task Force on Credit Analysis (Task Force) 
will meet as soon as possible with appropriate staff of 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to develop the type of 
information that should be reported by borrowing Home 
Loan Banks to the Reserve Banks to assure appropriate use 
of Reserve Bank credit and to formulate appropriate 
procedures for making and securing loans, and will make 
recommendations to assist each Reserve Bank in reaching an 
understanding with its Home Loan Bank(s) regarding these 
matters. 
C on suit a t i_or. between J;Jhe. Task Force ar.d Home Loan Bank Board 
1) Upon notification by the Board of Governors of the 
imminence of borrowing by the Home Loan Banks, the 
Chairman of the Subcommittee on Discounts and Credits 
will request the System Task Force to assemble, jointly 
with the Board's Federal Reserve Credit Committee, for 
the purpose of consulting with the Office of Finance 
of the Federal Home Loan Banks. Following that consulta-
tion the Task Force will determine: 
(a) to what extent the Home Loan Banks are unable to 
obtain adequate credit accommodations elsewhere. 
(b) the amount of credit required by weeks during each 
of the following four weeks. 

3437 
-ii-
(c) the duration and amount of the borrowing need by 
individual Home Loan Banks. 
2) 
The Task Force will report to each Reserve Bank the 
projected borrowing need of Home Loan Banks within its 
district. This notification will be in the form of a 
book message addressed to the President and lending 
officer and will include a statement by the Task Force 
as to the unavailability of credit from other 
sources. 
Application for Credit 
1) An authorized official of each Home Loan Bank will contact 
the senior lending official of the Federal Reserve Bank 
office as follows: 
Federal Home Loan Bank 
Federal Reserve Office 
Boston 
New York 
Pittsburgh 
Cincinnati 
Atlanta 
Chicago 
Indianapolis 
Des Moines 
Little Rock 
Topeka 
San Francisco 
Seattle 
Boston 
New York 
Pittsburgh 
Cincinnati 
Atlanta 
Chicago 
Chicago 
Chicago 
Little Rock 
Kansas City 
San Francisco 
Seattle 

3438 
-ii-
2) Consultation between the Federal Reserve Bank and 
District Home Loan Bank will concern the specifics 
of the borrowing to include: 
(a) the timing of the take down of the credit. 
(b) the custody of notes taken as collateral. Under 
proper safeguards the notes of savings and loan 
associations to be taken as collateral may be held 
on the premises of the Home Loan Bank under the 
control of the Federal Reserve Bank. 
(c) notes of savings and loan associations will be 
accepted as collateral at face value in an amount 
equal to the note of the Home Loan Bank and excess 
collateral will not be required. 
(d) statistics and information to be made available to 
the Federal Reserve Bank by the Federal Home Loan 
Bank. 
Executing the Note 
1) The note of the Home Loan Bank will be written to mature 
in accordancc with the duration specified by the Task 
Force. 
v 
2) The Home Loan Bank will attach to the note to be 
discounted a list of the notes of savings and loan 

3139 
-ii-
associations to be used as collateral, including 
the name of the institution, amount, and maturity of 
the advance. 
3) Upon discounting the note and taking appropriate steps 
to adequately protect its interest in the collateral, 
the Federal Reserve Bank will credit the reserve account 
of the member bank designated as the bank of account for 
the borrowing Federal Home Loan Bank and debit "Loans 
to Others" as shown on the Daily Balance Sheet. 
4) The Federal Reserve Bank will advise the Board of Governors, 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, of the amount 
and maturity of each note discounted. 
Monitoring Activities 
1) The Task Force will review daily, with the Office of 
Finance of the Federal Home Loan Banks, the latest 
projected cash position of the twelve Home Loan Banks 
combined and will advise each Reserve Bank daily of the 
results of such reviews. 
2) In the event that the projected needs are more or less 
, 
than anticipated, the Task Force will advise the Reserve 
Banks to be prepared to extend additional credit or to 
accept prepayment of existing notes. 

3440 
-9-
3) The Federal Reserve Banks will monitor Federal Home 
Loan Bank and savings and loan association activity 
within their respective districts during the period 
of the borrowing to insure: 
(a) that the purpose of the borrowing continues to be 
appropriate. If inappropriate use appears„ the 
Federal Reserve Bank will contact the Home Loan 
Bank. 
(b) that collateral is satisfactory. If collateral 
becomes impaired due to a change in the condition 
of a savings and loan association whose note is 
used as collateral, the Federal Reserve Bank will 
request substitution. 

ATTACHMENT B 
3 1 1 1 
Guidelines for emergency lending to 
nonmember commercial banks and to 
savings banks that are not members of the 
Federal Home Loan Bank System 
A decision to extend emergency credit should be based upon the probable 
consequences of the failure to obtain Reserve Bank credit and the impact 
of any resulting bank failure on the community or the economy. It would 
bc most unusual for the failure of a single institution or small group of 
institutions to have such significant repercussions as to justify Federal 
Reserve action. However, in exceptional and unusual cases, credit may be 
extended to a solvent nonmember bank unable to obtain assistance elsewhere 
in order to prevent the failure of the bank, provided that the failure, in 
the Reserve Bank's judgment, would impose a serious hardship on the can-
launity or economy, or would seriously affect the condition of other banks. 
r\ 
Credit should be extended to nonmember banks only if all reasonable 
alternative sources of credit have been exhausted, and only if the bank has 
made all reasonable and appropriate adjustments in its investment portfolio 
a nd lending practices. 
o 
Emergency credit should be made available to a nonmember bank only after 
c°nsultation with the Board and the responsible regional Federal and/or 
°tate bank supervisory agencies. A Federal Reserve Bank should not make a 
to a nonmember bank against the wishes of the appropriate supervisory 
agency without prior consultation on that matter with the Board of Governors, 
should it be obligated to lend to nonmember banks on an emergency basis 
w 
Sorely because of a request by such agency. 
A nonmember bank granted emergency credit will be expected to arrange 
promptly for all reasonable and orderly adjustments of its position in 

3442 
- 2 -
order to repay its loan. In some cases, the Reserve Banks may provide 
emergency credit to a nonmember bank for an extended period in order to 
provide assistance to the responsible bank supervisory agencies in carrying 
out a well-defined and approved program of reorganization designed to 
place the bank in a sound financial condition. 
5. In all cases, the Federal Reserve Bank will oversee closely the 
Progress of the adjustment program of the borrowing nonmember bank, and 
will reserve the right to take appropriate steps to protect its interest 
and to otherwise accomplish the purpose of the loan. 
6. Inasmuch as the emergency situations referred to above do not usually 
arise without some advance warning, the Reserve Banks should be furnished, 
as early as possible, with information on developing situations that may 
result in a request for Federal Reserve credit. The Board of Governors 
should also be informed of such situations by the Reserve Banks as promptly 
as possible, particularly since it may be necessary to consult with other 
supervisory authorities in Washington. 
7. Emergency credit may be extended to nonmember banks as follows: 
(a) Conmcrcial banks. Credit may be extended directly under 
paragraph 13 of Section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act 
upon the security of Government obligations or indirectly 
through member banks. 
Indirect extensions may be made 
(a) under Section 13 upon the security of Government 
obligations or eligible paper, or (b) under Section 10(b) 
secured by assets acquired by the member bank from the 
nonmember bank for the purpose of obtaining credit for the 
latter, if the assets are acceptable as collateral to the 
Reserve Bank. Finally, although not of widespread potential 

application, paragraph 3 of Section 13 provides for direct 
discounting of eligible paper for a nonmember bank. 
Savings banks. Credit may be extended directly under para-
graph 3 of Section 13 on the note of the mutual or stock 
savings bank endorsed or otherwise secured to the satisfac-
tion of the Reserve Bank or under paragraph 13 of Section 13 
on the note of the savings bank secured by Government 
obligations. Credit may also be extended through a 
cooperating member bank serving as a conduit. 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
DFTHF. 
Item No. 2 
9/6/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
G E O R G E 
W. 
M I T C H E L L 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
September 6, 1973 
Mr. Richard A. Debs 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Dick: 
This is to inform you that the Board of 
Governors has today approved your appointment as a 
member of the System Steering Committee on Improving 
the Payments Mechanism to succeed William F. Treiber. 
While the Board was of the view that membership on 
the Steering Committee should continue to be limited 
to Reserve Bank Presidents and First Vice Presidents 
and Board Members, it was understood that you might 
wish, particularly during the next few months, to 
designate. Thomas 0. Waage or another officer of the 
New York Bank to attend meetings of the Steering 
Committee in your place. 
The other members of the Steering Committee 
and I are looking forward to working with you during 
this important planning stage in the application of 
more advanced technology to the nation's payments 
mechanism. 
Sincerely yours 
Sysuem aceermg ^oinmxccee 
on Improving the Payments Mechanism 

B O A R • OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
Item No. 3 
9/6/73 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 5Y51"EM 
W A S H I N G T O N . O. C. 2 C 5 5 I 
fyr^' 
A N D R E W F. B R I M M E R 
M E M B E R OF t H E 
B O A R D 
September 7, 1973 
•T^he Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Joint Committee on Defense Production 
Congress of the United States 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In response to your letter of July 2, 1973, and as'the Member of 
the Board with delegated responsibility for emergency preparedness, 
I enclose a report summarizing the mobilization activities of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and Federal Reserve 
Banks for inclusion in the Twenty-third Annual Report of the Joint 
The report, in three parts, summarizes programs and activities 
delated to three general areas of preparedness responsibility 
assigned to the Board and Federal Reserve Banks by Executive Orders 
U 4 9 0 and 10480; namely, preparations to survive a nuclear attack 
and to cope with the potential economic effects of all conditions 
national emergency, promotion of commercial bank preparedness, 
performance of fiscal agency and regulatory functions in con-
nection with Government guarantees of defense production loans. 
The report notes that the Federal Reserve has suggested to the Office 
°f Management and Budget that the postattack financial policies be 
reappraised. 0MB has suggested that the Board prepare a position 
Paper on emergency financial and stabilization plans, and such a 
study is under way. 
Committee to the Congres q 
Sincerely yours 
Enclosure 

3446 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
.-'OVGOV-. 
O F T H E 
Item No. 4 
^OVLil?^ ' . 
/-j j r / ~j o 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
9 / 6 / 7 3 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2C551 
>; ' I It 
•f^TR?.^:-' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
r a 
T H E 
B O ^ R D 
September 6, 1973 
National Bank of Detroit 
D e t r o i t , Michigan 48232 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 27, 1973, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your bank to continue to hold, directly 
or indirectly, the shares of Western American Bank. (Europe) Limited 
( WAB"), London, England, after WAB acquires up to 68 per cent of the 
shares of Medens Trust Limited ("Medens"), Newport, Isle of Wight, 
England, at a cost of approximately £7,465,000* (about $19,150,000), 
Provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
getter. 
In this connection, approval is also granted for the continued 
folding of the shares of WAB by your bank although WAB's investment in 
edens i s to be in excess of the a p p l i c a b l e l i m i t a t i o n s 
s e t f o r t h in the 
Provisions of Section 25(a) (12 U.S.C.615(c)) of the Federal Reserve 
A ct and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
Since WAB will control Medens, the activities of Medens are 
t o be governed by the same conditions set forth in the Board's consent 
December 4, 1968, as amended, including reporting requirements. 
The 
c^rrying value of your investment in WAB shall reflect the elimination 
the excess of WAB's cost of the stock of Medens over its proportionate 
lare of Medens1 net worth, after removal of all known losses. 
Approval is also granted for the continued holding of shares 
, ^AB after WAB, directly or through Medens, issues and has outstanding 
^ligations with maturities in excess of one year up to £15,000,000 in 
uxtion to amounts permitted in earlier Board approvals. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the ac-
^ilsitiort will be made, with the resources of WAB and will not involve 
ny transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the United 
btates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3117 
B D A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
DF THE 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
9/6/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 6, 1973 
Security Pacific International Bank 
270 Park Avenue 
New York. New York 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 29, 1973, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation to continue to hold, 
directly or indirectly, the shares of Western American Bank (Europe) 
Limited ("WAB"), London, England, after WAB acquires up to 68 per cent 
°f the shares of Medens Trust Limited ("Medens"), Newport, Isle of Wight, 
England, at a cost of approximately £7,465,000 (about $19,150,000), pro-
vided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
etter. In this connection, approval is also granted for the continued 
folding of the shares of WAB by your Corporation although WAB's invest-
ment in Medens is to be in excess of the applicable limitations set 
forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) (12 U.S.C. 615(c)) of the Fed« 
er*l Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
Since WAB will control Medens, the activities of Medens are 
0 t>e governed by the same conditions set forth in the Board's consent 
°f Decemb er 4, 1968, as amended, including reporting requirements. 
The 
c drying value of your investment in WAB shall reflect the elimination 
' 
excess of WAB's cost of the stock of Medens over its proportionate 
s iare. of Medens1 net worth, after removal of all known losses. 
Approval is also granted for the continued holding of shares 
. WAB, after WAB, directly or through Medens, issues and has outstand-
ing obligations with maturities in excess of one year up to £15,000,000 
n addition to amounts permitted in earlier Board approvals. 
. _ 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the ac-
I^isiticn will be made with the resources of WAB and will not involve any 
ransfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
l l i l l K : 

^L Rtsf:'- • 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R B 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
34-18 
Item No. 6 
9/6/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
September 6, 1973 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp. 
561 South Spring Street 
Los Angeles, California 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 29, 1973, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation to continue to hold, 
directly or indirectly, the shares of Western American Bank (Europe) 
Limited ("WAB"), London, England, after WAB acquires up to 68 per cent 
o f the shares of Medens Trust Limited ("Medens"), Newport, Isle of Wight, 
England, at a cost of approximately £7,465,000 (about $19,150,000), pro-
vided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
Gtter. 
In this connection, approval is also granted for the continued 
holding of the shares of WAB by your Corporation although WAB's invest-
ment in Medens is to be in excess of the applicable limitations set 
f°rth in the provisions of Section 25(a) (12 U.S.0.615(c)) of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
Since WAB will control Medens, the activities of Medens are 
t o be governed by the same conditions set forth in the Board's consent 
December 4, 1968, as amended, including reporting requirements. The 
carrying value of your investment in WAB shall reflect the elimination 
the excess of WAB's cost of the stock of Medens over its proportionate 
^are of Medens' net worth, after removal of all k n o w losses. 
Approval is also granted for the continued holding of shares 
. WAB, after WAB, directly or through Medens, issues and has outstand-
ing obligations with maturities in excess of one year up to £15,000,000 
u addition to amounts permitted in earlier Board approvals. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the ac-
quisition will be made with the resources of WAB and will not involve 
Jty transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the United 
S t a t e s . 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

34 49 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F- THE 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
9/6/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E B O A R O 
September 6, 1973 
Wells Fargo Bank International 
40 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 29, 1973, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation to continue to hold, 
directly or indirectly, the shares of Western American Bank (Europe) 
Limited ("WAB"), London, England, after WAB acquires up to 68 per cent 
of the shares of Medens Trust Limited ("Medens"), Newport, Isle of Wight, 
England, at a cost of approximately £7,465,000 (about $19,150,000) pro-
vided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
l e t t e r . 
In this connection, approval is also granted for the continued 
holding of the shares of WAB by your Corporation although WAB's invest-
me-ftt in Medens is to be in excess of the applicable limitations set 
f°rth in the provisions of Section 25(a) (12 U.S.C.615(c)) of the Fed-
Gral Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
Since WAB will control Medens, the activities of Medens are 
to be governed by the same conditions set forth in the Board's consent 
°f December 4, 1968, as amended, including reporting requirements. The 
carrying value of your investment in WAB shall reflect the elimination 
°f the excess of WAB's cost of the stock of Medens over its proportionate 
share of Medens' net worth, after removal of all known losses. 
Approval is also granted for the continued holding of shares 
WAB, after WAB, directly or through Medens, issues and has outstand-
ing obligati ons with maturities in excess of one year up to £15,000,000 
lri addition to amounts permitted in earlier Board approvals. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the ac-
quisition will be made with the resources of WAB and will not involve any 
transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3450 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
9/6/73 
THE FORT WORTH NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Fort Worth National Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of Levelland State Bank, Levelland, Texas. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
* 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
1/ 
Applicant controls six banks 
with aggregate deposits of approxi-
mately $878 million, representing 2.5 per cent of the total deposits of 
commercial banks in the State. Applicant ranks as the fifth largest multi-
kank holding company in Texas and the largest in the Fort Worth banking 
market, where it controls approximately 31 per cent of the total commercial 
b ank deposits in that market. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1972 
and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
B°ard through July 15, 1973.)"^ In addition, Applicant controls between 
Bank of Fort Worth, Riverside State Bank, and Tarrant State Bank, all 
•seated in Fort Worth, are deemed subsidiaries for purposes of the Bank 
olding Company Act by virtue of Applicant's fiduciary holdings in said 
^nks and Section 2(a)(5)(A) of the Act. 
The above banking data do not reflect Board action on separate applications 
y Applicant to acquire The First State Bank of Stratford, Stratford, Texas 
^eposits of $21.6 million) approved by Order dated August 16, 1973 and 
Commercial Bank & Trust Co., Midland, Texas (deposits of $30.3 million) 
aPproved by Order of August 23, 1973. 

3151 
-ii-
24.4 per cent and 24.9 per cent of the voting shares of two other banks 
located in the Fort Worth market, holding aggregate deposits of $74.1 million. 
Applicant also owns in excess of 5 per cent of the shares of the First Na-
tional Bank, Paducah, Texas. Upon consummation of the acquisition of Bank 
($27.4 million in deposits), Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits 
in the State would increase by 0.07 per cent and its rank would remain un-
changed . 
Bank is the largest of 4 banks in the Hockley County banking market 
and controls 56.6 per cent of the commercial bank deposits therein. The 
second largest bank in the market holds 31.1 per cent of total deposits and 
is affiliated within a holding company system. Consummation of the proposal 
would constitute Applicant's initial entry into the relevant market. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank closest, to Bank is located in Amarillo, 
1 30 miles north of Levelland, and it appears that there is no meaningful 
competition between any of Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank. Further-
more, in view of the distances involved and the restrictive branching laws 
in 
Texas, it appears unlikely that any significant amount of competition would 
develop in the future between any of these institutions. Although Applicant 
could enter Bank's market de novo, this method of expansion is not likely 
because of the market's declining population and relatively low population 
t o banking office ratio compared with the State average. On the basis of 
t he record before it, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
transaction would not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant 
a*ea. 

3 1 5 2 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its subsidi-
s e s appear satisfactory and future prospects for all are favorable. Bank's 
nianagerial resources are satisfactory and its future prospects are considered 
to be good; the financial condition of Bank is satisfactory in light of 
Applicant's commitment to inject additional equity capital upon consummation 
this proposal. There is no evidence in the record to indicate that the 
inking needs of the residents of Bank's market are not being adequately 
Served. Upon consummation, however, Applicant intends to improve the trust 
services of Bank, increase the capital available for industrial and agricul-
tural development, provide more long-term mortgage financing, and introduce 
computer facilities to Bank. Introduction of these new facilities and in-
creased service capabilities should enable Bank to continue to adequately 
serve the community. Therefore, considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served are consistent with approval of the 
aPplication. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) before 
tlle thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. Further, the transaction shall not 
?k 
e Consummated until there has been compliance with § 3(e) of the Act (12 
1842(e)) which requires that every bank that is a holding company and 

3453 
-4-
every bank that is a subsidiary of such a company shall become and remain an 
insured bank as such term is defined in § 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h)). 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3 V — 
- • 
ff Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Daane. 

'-tmi wi-
3154 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 9 
..'o'oVco^. 
OF THE 
* 
~
• 
9/6/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BHC~18 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
AOor.ECE arriciAU nanKtsfCNrtscc 
• 
TO THE BOARO 
September 13, 1973 
ttlE OFFICERS IN CHARGE 0? EXAHIITATICHS, LEGAL AND 
fcESEA&CH DSX'AR'XMENl'S Or' AiJ- FEDERAL RSSFaVB BAliXS 
An you know, by an action announced April 25, 1973, the 
Board extended to Federal Reserve Banks additional authority to 
approve certain marker and Scction 3 appiicatior.3 under delegated 
authority. Under this delegation, Federal Reserve Bani:s were not 
Crantod authority to approve applications when senior crficers of 
fcho merging banks or of suoaidiary banks of the holding company 
Wore directors of a Federal Reserve Bank or branch. The Board has 
now directed that, such authority also ia not granted to Federal 
Bavka v&sa uauior o^'xicora of the merging bsnics or or sub-
Salary bark;?, e£ tha holding company are members or the Federal 
^i.sory Council, 
In order that such applications m y continue to be pro-
promptly, the 3asa procedure thaf: was suggested in 5HC-3 is 
cJJ?>80sSted here, When the Federal Reserve Bank receives an application 
^ t could be acted on under delegated authority except for the fact 
that a Federal Advisory Council member is involved, the Reserve Bank 
^ ' U submit at: about the end ox. 45 day a the same package it submits 
l7x delegated cases, This package will then be reviewed by Beard ctafS 
sent to the Board for action. 
The cover page oi the package akould contain a paragraph 
to the following: 
An officer (or director) of applicant (or one or more of its 
8u^sidiariea) ia a member or the Federal Advisory Council; otherwise 
5;*1- case would have been processed under delegated authority by the 
Reserve* Bank or 
_ 
. 
Brenton C, Leavittr" 
Program Director 
for Banking Structure 

B O A R D OF" G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
34.ctr 
Item No. 10 
9/6/73 
O i ) 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D H S E S P O N D t N C t 
T O 
T H C 
C O A D O 
September 6, 1973 
Kr. William V. Skidmore 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Kr. Skidmore: 
\ 
Xliis letter conveys the judgment of the'Board on the three 
legislative recommendations set forth in the Legislative Referral 
Memorandum dated August 24, 1973, concerning the National Credit 
Union Administration. 
The Board has no objection to authorizing Federal c r e d i t 
unions to i s s u e share certificates with varying dividend r a t e s and 
maturities. Nor does the Board have any objection to authorizing 
F e d e r a l credit unions to offer loan plans in the nature of pre-approved 
credit. 
With regard to the proposal to authorize the Administrator to 
make loans, purchase the assets of, or establish accounts in, Federally 
insured credit unions which are solvent but temporarily illiquid, the 
Board would support a grant, of such authority to the Administrator in 
narrow terms, as the draft legislation now provides, to meet emergency: 
situations involving temporary liquidity shortages. However, were the 
v legislation to be couched in more general terms authorizing the Administrator 
to provide credit to credit unions as a complement to their normal operations 
in a manner that would reduce their need to maintain customary liquidity, 
the Board would oppose it. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

. 3456 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 11 
9/6/73 
THE REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF DALLAS 
Determination Regarding "Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) pro-
v e s certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect to 
nonbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amendments 
t o the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 1970" 
m a y c°ntinue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, in non-
banking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on June 30, 
1968 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of activities 
Carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company or subsidiary, 
Pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on or before June 30, 
-^68, of- another company engaged in such activities at the time of the 
acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in since June 30, 1968 
such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
Privileges if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
^termines that such action is necessary to prevent an undue concentration 
resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, 
fty, 
unsound banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a 
^ank with assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
tfi 
e Board is required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

3157 
-ii-
Notice of the Board's proposed review of grandfather 
Privileges of The Republic National Bank of Dallas, Dallas, Texas, 
and an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
o r request a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414 and 25204). The time for 
filing comments, views, and requests has expired, and all those received 
have been considered by the Board in light of the factors set forth in 
5 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
The Republic National Bank of Dallas ("Registrant"), Dallas, 
Texas, became a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of 
the 1970 Amendments to the Act by virtue of Registrant's indirect control of 
approximately 30 per cent of the voting shares of Oak Cliff Bank and Trust 
c°Wpany, Dallas, Texas (assets of about $96 million, as of December 31, 
U70), On July 13, 1973, the Board announced its finding that Registrant, 
a national bank, had authority to continue the activities of its six 
direct subsidiaries. The Board noted in its announcement that it was 
considering the question of Registrant's entitlement to grandfather privileges 
with respect to activities conducted by the Howard Corporation, et al.„ 
a group of corporations all the shares of which are held for the benefit 
o f the shareholders of Registrant and, by virtue of § 2(g)(2) of the Act, 
are deemed to be controlled by Registrant. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following findings. 
Since 1928 the shareholders of Registrant have been the beneficiaries of 
ar* affiliated group of corporations under a trusteeship. These organizations, 
known as "The Howard Corporation", a Texas trust which will terminate 

3458 
-3-
in 1978, was established in 1928. The trusteeship was the outgrowth of 
a consolidation in which assets ineligible for retention by a national 
bank were set aside in a separate trust for the benefit of the shareholders 
o f Registrant. The trusteed corporations also have stock interests in 
1/ 
other Texas banks. 
The net income for the Howard Corporation 
in 
!97l amounted to over $3 million, which includes $1.4 million received 
a s the result of equity interests in the earnings of Registrant and other 
companies. The consolidated assets for all the companies in the group 
amounted to $153 million as of December 31, 1971. 
Registrant claims grandfather privileges for various activities. 
2/ 
^public Commerce Company, 
Dallas (assets of $24 million as of December 31, 
l 9 7l), holds 100 per cent of the voting shares of Republic Money Orders, Inc., 
Dallas, the shares of which were received from the Savings and Profit Sharing 
Retirement Fund for the emoloyees of Registrant, which fund had held 
the stock from 1959 to 1971. Republic Money Orders owns 100 per cent of 
y The Board's action herein is based on Registrant's claim that it con-
trolled only one bank on June 30, 1968, and therefore became a bank holding 
company covered by the Bank Holding Company Act as a result of the enact-
ment of the 1970 Amendments to the Act. The record shows that Registrant 
J a s interests in each of 21 other banks ("minority" banks), interests ranging 
r° m 6 to 24.98 per cent. The action herein does not constitute a deter-
mination by the Board that any of the minority banks is or is not, or may 
ecome a subsidiary of Registrant. Nor does the action herein indicate 
"at the Board would in the future permit Registrant to acquire, directly 
° r indirectly, any additional shares of any of said minority banks. More-
over the action herein does not preclude the Board from determining that 
Pplicant exercises control of, or a controlling influence over the manage-
ment or policies of, any of said banks within the meaning of § 2(a) of the 
2 / All the shares of Republic Commerce Company are held for the benefit 
the shareholders of Registrant. 

3159 
-4-
the stock of Republic Money Orders of California, Inc., Dallas, and each 
of these firms is engaged in the business of selling and servicing money 
orders and travelers check. The combined assets of the two companies as 
December 31, 1971 amounted to about $33 million. It appears that 
Registrant may continue its interests in these companies on the basis 
°f grandfather privileges. 
3/ 
Republic National Bank Building Corporation 
(assets of $706,000 
a s of December 31, 1971), which was acquired in 1951, operates and manages 
two buildings occupied by Registrant." Registrant need not rely on grand-
father privileges for the continuation of its interest in this company 
inasmuch as it appears that the activities of the company are permissible 
4/ 
the basis of § 4(c)(1)(A). 
5/ 
Exchange Security & Investment Co. . (assets of $160,000 as of Decem-
31, 1971) was formed in June, 1970 for the purpose of acquiring Exchange 
National Life Insurance Company (admitted assets of $638,000 as of Decem-
31, 1971), which was acquired subsequently in November, 1970, and 
reinsures credit life and disability insurance policies. Since these 
interests were acquired after June 30, 1968, Registrant is not entitled to 
A U l h e shares of Republic National Bank Building Corporation are held 
° r the benefit of the shareholders of Registrant. 
y Section 4(c)(1)(A) of the Act permits a bank holding company (without 
^he approval of the Board) to hold shares of any company engaged in 
* • .holding or operating properties used wholly or substantially by 
hanking subsidiary of such bank holding company in the operations of 
Uch banking subsidiary or acquired for such future use;11. 
A H the shares of Exchange Security & Investment Co. are held for the 
enefit of the shareholders of Registrant. 

-5-
3460 
indefinite grandfather privileges and must reduce its interest to 5 per 
cent or less of the voting shares by December 31, 1980, unless Registrant 
obtains Board approval under § 4(c)(8) to retain the interest. 
Except for the activities engaged in by the above corporations, 
6/ 
t he principal activities of the Howard Corporation and its subsidiaries 
a r e in the areas of oil, gas, minerals; real estate; lending and/or 
guaranteeing money and acting as a financial advisor; and owning and 
holding stocks and bonds in various companies. 
The Howard Corporation itself engages directly in managing all 
the affiliated corporations and, in connection with the management of the 
affiliated corporations, engages in borrowing and lending money, acting as 
investment counselor, and furnishing management and financial advisory 
services. It appears that these activities are eligible for, and may be coi 
tinually on the basis of, grandfather privileges. The Howard Corporation 
also holds investments in (1) securities, (2) oil, gas, mineral properties, 
and (3) r e a l e s t ate activities. 
The securities investments of the Howard Corporation appear 
to be generally permissible for a bank holding company so long as the 
share holdings in each company do not exceed 5 per cent of the outstanding 
7/ 
v°ting shares of the company. 
Shareholdings of more than 5 per cent 
o f the shares of any company (but less than 25 per cent of the outstanding 
^pfflTthe shares of the Howard Corporation are held for the benefit of 
h e shareholders of Registrant. 
If Section 4(c)(6) of the Act permits a bank holding company (without the 
approval of the Board) to hold "shares of any company which do not include 
than 5 per centum of the outstanding voting shares of such company;". 

-ii-
3161 
shares) which have been held continuously since June 30, 1968, are 
eligible for grandfather benefits as an investment. However, this 
determination is not authority to increase that investment interest; nor 
to make investments in other companies, unless the investment interest in 
each additional company amounts to not more than 5 per cent of the out-
standing voting shares of such company. 
With respect to oil, gas, and mineral interests, the Howard 
Corporation and its subsidiaries have investments in approximately 600 
interests principally in Texas and Louisiana. Neither the Howard Corpora-
tion nor its subsidiaries engage in the developing, mining, drilling, etc., 
o t oil, gas, or other minerals, nor In acting as an operator, servicer, 
° r producer in connection with oil, gas, or mineral activities. On a 
grandfather basis, Registrant may continue, through the Howard Corporation, 
the investments in the oil, gas, and mineral properties held on June 30, 
and, to the extent necessary to preserve and develop those interests, 
continue activities related to the wells, refineries, pipe lines, 
joint ventures, and land exploration with respect to which the Howard 
Corporation had investments on June 30, 1968. 
United Petroleum Corporation, Dallas (assets of $173,000 as of 
December 31, 1971), and Walker Properties, Dallas, each of which is 
5 0 Per cent owned by the Howard Corporation, hold title to and participate 
a s investors in oil, gas, and mineral interests, and participate as 
Investors in drilling and operating oil and gas wells. Pine Island Oil 
Coittpany (assets of $44,000 as of December 31, 1971), Lake Charles, 

3162 
-7-
Louisiana, which is 50 per cent owned by the Howard Corporation, owns, 
certain oil, gas, and mineral interests. Walker Louisiana Properties, 
Louisiana, a joint venture 50 per cent owned by the Howard Corporation, 
owns certain oil, gas and mineral interests, as well as farm and timber 
land, and participates as an investor in drilling and operating oil and 
gas wells. Prairie Canal Company (assets of $718,000 as of December 31, 
1 9 71), Lake Charles, Louisiana, 32.9 per cent of which is owned by the 
Howard Corporation, owns and holds title to oil, gas and mineral interests. 
I n Varying degrees as described below, each of the five entities named above, 
owns real estate properties as an adjunct to the oil, gas, and mineral 
j 
erests. To the extent that the oil, gas, and mineral interests des-
cribed above were held on June 30, 1968, Registrant is entitled to grand-
father benefits to retain such investments. 
In addition to the above activities of the Howard Corpora-
tion and its subsidiaries, Registrant is deemed to control, by virtue of 
* 2(g)(2) of the Act, MacMor Oil Company, Boyce Oil Company, and MacBean 
Company, all located in Dallas and owned 100 per cent by the Savings 
atlci Profit Sharing Retirement Fund for the employees of Registrant. These 
Coinpanies were formed, all prior to June 30, 1968, for the sole purpose 
holding title to oil and gas production payments. When all the pro-
action payments are paid out, the three organizations will be nothing more 
than corporate shells. At the present time, only MacMor Oil and MacBean 
Oil 
are active, and Registrant may continue its interests in these companies 
° n the basis of grandfather privileges. 

-8~ 
In connection with oil, gas, and mineral interests. Registrant, 
through the Howard Corporation, has made acquisitions of additional 
mineral interests after June 30, 1968. To the extent that those additional 
acquisitions were related to and necessary to protect oil, gas, and 
mineral investments held on June 30, 1968, they may be retained on the 
hasis of grandfather privileges. Investments made during the period 
from June 30, 1968, to December 31, 1970, that were not so related may 
be retained until December 31, 1980. Any other investments made after 
December 31, 1970, and in excess of a 5 per cent interest are required by 
the Act to be reduced to 5 per cent or less and this should be effected 
a t the earliest practicable date. 
The Howard Corporation acts as a financing partner or investor 
real estate. As noted above, Pine Island Oil, Walker Louisiana 
c°Perties, Prairie Canal, United Petroleum Company and Walker Properties 
are each engaged in holding real estate principally as an adjunct to oil, 
^as> and mineral interests but U3ed also for commercial, residential, and 
a^ricultural purposes. The property is not a contiguous tract but scattered 
acreage throughout southern Louisiana, Texas, and other states. 
Three wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Howard Corporation were 
°r8anized t o acquire, hold, manage, operate, and sell real and personal 
pr°perty acquired by Registrant through loan foreclosures. The three 
Subsidiari 
es, namely, Rheims Corporation (assets of $408,000 as of Decern-
be"r 31, 1971), which was acquired in 1958; Fairfax Investment Corporation 

-9-
3464 
(assets of $3,300 as of December 31, 1971), which was acquired in 1959; 
and Westside Investment Corporation (assets of about $100 as of Decern-
b e r 31, 1971), which was acquired in 1«59); appear to be eligible for 
retention without reference to grandfather benefits by virtue of §'4(c)(1)(D) 
8/ 
o f the Act.-
The Howard Corporation owns six shopping centers, two in California, 
three i n Texas, and one in Louisiana, all of which were acquired prior 
to June 30, 1968. Registrant is entitled to retain these properties on 
the basis of grandfather privileges. 
Three other subsidiaries of the Howard Corporation are engaged 
i n r e a l estate ventures. The Oxford Corporation (assets of $1 million 
a s of December 31, 1971), which was acquired in 1969, acts as a investing 
Partner in acquisition, development, operation and sale of realty. The 
°xford Corporation has a 50 per cent interest in each of two other companies, 
Namely, Westgate Company and Polk Wheatland Company, which engage in 
activities similar to Oxford's. 
Inasmuch as Registrant's interest in 
these corporations was made after June 30, 1968, but before December 31, 
X 9 7°, the companies do not appear to be entitled to grandfather privileges, 
arid Registrant must reduce its interest to 5 per cent or less of the 
V°ting shares by December 31, 1980, unless it obtains Board approval to 
t e tai n its interests. 
The Westminister Corporation (assets of $21,000 as of December 31, 
^1), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Howard Corporation, was acquired 
in i 
1969 and has as its only assets an option on an oil refinery. Registrant 
V continue to hold this interest until December 31, 1980. 
8/~~o———-
the 
n 
4(c)(1)(D) of the Act permits a bank holding company (without 
•i^ approval of the Board) to hold shares of any company engaged in 
_ * * liquidating assets acquired from such bank holding or its banking 
aubaidia*les... . 

-ii-
3165 
Since June 30, 1968, Registrant, through the Howard Corporation. 
and its subsidiaries, has purchased real estate or has become a partner 
and invested in several joint ventures engaged in buying real estate for 
further development and/or appreciation in value. In many instances, the 
acquisition was made after December 31, 1970, the date of the 1970 Amendments 
t o the Act, and, on the basis of the prohibitions in § 4 of the Act, imper-
missible unless Registrant had grandfather privileges for such investments. 
Registrant should reduce its interest in each joint venture or real estate 
(acquired after December 31, 1970) to 5 per cent or less at the earliest 
Practicable date. With respect to investments in joint ventures or real 
estate made between June 30, 1968, and December 31, 1970, Registrant has 
until December 31, 1980, to reduce its interest to 5 per cent or less. 
Any interest in a joint venture for real estate or real estate acquired 
Prior to June 30, 1968, may be retained indefinitely together with invest-
ments related to or necessary to protect real estate investments held on 
30, 1968. 
On the basis of the foregoing and all the facts before the Board, 
it: appears that the volume, scope, and nature of the activities of Regis-
trant described herein and of the Howard Corporation, do not demonstrate 
a n undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, con-
victs of interest nor unsound banking practices. 
The appears to be no reason to require Registrant to terminate 
it-o 
L S grandfathered interests. It is the Board's judgment that, at this 
t i m e» termination of the grandfather privileges of Registrant described 
herein is not necessary in order to prevent an undue concerntration of 

3166 
-ii-
r^sources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or 
unsound banking practices. Except as indicated herein, this determination 
i s not authority to enter into any new activity, or product extension that 
W a s not engaged in on June 30, 1968 and continuously thereafter, or any 
activity that is not the subject of this determination. 
A significant alteration in the nature or extension of Registrant's 
activities or a change in location thereof (significantly different from 
any described in this determination) will be cause for a re-evaluation by the 
B°ard of Registrant's activities under the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of the 
that is, whenever the alteration or change is such that the Board finds 
that a termination of the grandfather privileges is necessary to prevent 
a u undue concentration of resources or any of the other evils at which the 
is directed. No merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets other 
than i n th e ordinary course of business, nor acquisition of any interest 
in a going concern, to which the Registrant or any nonbank subsidiary 
th 
ereof i s a party, may be consummated without prior approval of the Board. 
^ t h e r , the provision of any credit, property, or service by the Registrant 
or 
n 
any subsidiary thereof shall not be subject to any condition which, if 
imposed by a bank, would constitute an unlawful tie-in arrangement under 
106 of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
The determination herein does not preclude a later review, by 
tlle Board, of Registrant's nonbank activities and a future determination 
^ the Board in favor of termination of grandfather benefits of Registrant. 

31G7 
-ii-
The determination herein is subject to the Board's authority to require 
modifi c a ti o n or termination of the activities of Registrant or any of its 
nonbanking subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
9/ 
By determination of the Board of Governors, effective September 10» 
1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEAL] 
•z' Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
rimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman 
Burns 

BL1ARD • F 
G G V E R N D R B 
.. 
3 1 6 8 
u r T H E 
Item No. 12 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/5/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C- 
20S51 
A U O ^ E f i S 
C m b l A L 
C C R R C E P D N O t N C C 
Y D 
T H E 
H D A R P 
September 10, 1973 
1 
> 
Republic of Texas Corporation 
Republic National Bank Building 
pacific and Ervay Streets 
Dallas, Texas 
7420.1 
Gentlemen: 
In connection with the application of Republic of Texas 
Corporation ("Corporation") to become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualit;ying shares) of the successor by merger to Republic National 
Bank of Dallas ("Republic Bank") and, as a result thereof, the acquisi-
tion of 29.99 per cent of the shares of Oak Cliff Bank and Trust Com-
pany ("Oak Cliff"), Dallas, Texas, you request that the Board determine 
that, • if the transaction were consummated, Corporation would be regarded 
a "successor" Lank holding company, within the meaning of § 2(e) of 
fclle Sank Holding Company Act (:,Act")~, to Republic Bank, ai.d entitled 
to'whatever grandfather privileges that Republic Bank may have pursuant ' 
to:the proviso in § 4(a)(2) of the Act.. 
Section 2(a)(6) of the Act provides: 
"For the purposes of 
this Act, any successor to a bank holding company shall be deemed to 
D e a hank holding company from the date on which the predecessor com-
pany became a bank holding company*" "Successor" is defined in sec-
tion 2(e) of the Act, as follows: 
"The term 'successor' shall .include any company which, 
acquires directly or indirectly from 2. bank holding company 
shares of any bank, when and if the relationship between such 
company and the bank holding company is such that the trans-
action effects no substantial change in tha control of the 
bank or beneficial ownership of such shares of such bank. 
The Board may, by regulation, further define the tern 
Successor' to the extent necessary to prevent evasion of 
the purposes of this Act." 
lift 
_ 

3H>S 
i 
Republic of Texas Corporation 
--2-: 
I 
The Board understands that § 2(c) of the Act was intended to 
cover successor organizations "in order to preclude the possibility that *. 
a bsnk holding company might escapc regulation simply by transferring 
^anlc stocks to some other organization which would not itself technically 
fall vrithin the definition." 
See the testimony of William McChesney 
Martin, then Chairman of the Board of Governors, before a Senate com-
fttf11ee (Hearings Before the Senate. Committeo. on Banking and Currency 
pa S. 76 and s T 1118, 83rd C o n g . 1 s t Sess." (1953)7 p." 15); "and see 
also the testimony of J. L. Robertson as a member of the Board of 
Governors} before a. House cornri.ittee (Hearings Before the House Committee 
j^JBanking and Currency on H.R. 6504,' 82nd "Cong*., ~2d Sess. (1952), p. 22) . 
Oa the basis of the language and intent of the Act's pro-
visions relating to the terra "successor", it is the Board's conclusion 
fch'it Corporation would not be a "successor" company within the meaning 
that term as defined in the Act. Under the successor provision, a 
company that acquires shares of a bank from a bank holding company is not " 
a successor if the transaction effects a substantial change in. the con-
L'VoI of the bank (i.e., Gal; Cliff Bank) as well as a substantial change 
la the beneficial ownership of the shares of that bank. 
In determining 
that Corporation would not be a successor, the Board noted, inter alia, 
tila following: 
1. Control by a national bank (Republic Bank) is sub-
stantially different from control by a nonb-u\k (Corporation). 
A national bank is subject to strict limitations on its-
activities (e.g., Revised Statutes 5136) whereas a nonbank 
holding company (Corporation) may become an investor in 
various businesses other than banking. 
In the present case, 
in particular, the some 9,000 shareholders of Republic Bank 
are entitled to receive the assets of the Howard Corporation, 
et al,, in 1978 but consummation of Corporation's proposal 
v 
would result in distribution of those assets to Corporation 
and not to the present shareholders of Republic Bank. 
2. Oak Cliff Bank would become a part of a multi-bank 
holding company system whereas it had been in a one-bank hold-
ing company system. 
3. Oak Cliff Bank would have two parent corporations 
(Corporation and Republic Bank) instead of one. 
In lieu, 
of some 9>000 beneficial owners of Oak Cliff's parent, 
there would be-, a single entity (Corporation) that would 

3170 
Republic of Texas Corporation 
~3~ 
own Oak Cliff's parent. 
Also, shareholders of Corporation 
way well be different from stockholders of the so-called 
"predecessor" (Republic Bank) because the device of the 
phantom merger may result in dissenting shareholders elect-
ing to receive cash in lieu of stock in the new corporation. 
4. Corporation is not substituted for Republic Eank; 
Republic Bank retains its control over Oak Cliff and has not 
• transferred control to another holding company. 
Control by 
a second entity is added. 
The Board regards the aforedescribed differences In control 
of bank and in beneficial ownership, when considered in light of the 
fact that the successor provision is designed to prevent escape from 
regulation or control and was not: designed to afford benefits, such as 
grandfather benefits, to.be dispositive of the issue. 
However, if Corporation, contrary to the Board's conclusion, 
were a successor, .it does not necessarily follow that Corporation would 
be entitled to the grandfather benefits of Republic Bank. Under § 2(a)(6) 
of the Act, Corporation (if a raccessor) would be deemed to be a bank 
holding company as of December 31, 1970, but this does not mean it: would 
have been one as of June 30, 1968 if the 1970 Amendments had been in 
effect at that time. As a matter of fact, it could not have been a bank 
holding company on that date, because it did not then exist. On this 
basis5 Corporation would not qualify for grandfather benefits under 
the provisions of $ 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
If Corporation had existed, 
it would have been a two-bank holding company on June 30, 1968, and 
vould not be a "company covered in 1970" nor entitled to grandfather 
benefits. 
On the basis of the evidence before it, the Boaid concludes 
vthat, if Corporation's proposal to become a bank holding company is 
consummated, Corporation would be regarded as neither a "successor 
corporation nor a "company rovercd In 1970" as those terms are defined 
in th?. Act« 
On this basis, Corporation would not be entitled to any 
grandfather privileges which Republic Bank ray possess by virtue of 
the proviso in, § 4(a)(2) of the Act* 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3171 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o . 13 
9/6/73 
SOUTHERN BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Acquisition of World Acceptance Corporation, 
Piedmont Premium Service, Inc., and 
SBT Real Estate, Inc. 
Southern Bancorporation, Inc., Greenville, South Carolina, 
h as applied for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(1) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), for the formation of 
a bank holding company through acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting 
shares of Crescent Bank and Trust Company, Greenville, South Carolina, 
the successor by merger to Southern Bank and Trust Company, Greenville, 
s°uth Carolina ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has 
significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the 
v°ting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares 
o f the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisi-
tion of the shares of Bank. 
At the same time, Applicant has applied in separate applica-
tions for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all 
p. M 
the voting shares of: (1) Taylor Acceptance Corporation, the successor 
^ merger to World Acceptance Corporation ("World Acceptance"); (2) Para-
Ill0unt Premium Service, Inc., the successor by merger to Piedmont Premium 
Se*vice, inc. ("Piedmont Premium"); and (3) Sobanco Properties, Inc., 
successor by merger to SBT Real Estate, Inc. ("SBT"); all located in 
Renville > South Carolina. World Acceptance engages in the activities 

3172 
-ii-
of making consumer finance loans and, in the States of Georgia and 
South Carolina, also acting as agent for the sale of credit related life, 
accident and disability insurance, and credit related property and casualty 
insurance issued in connection with extensions of credit by World Acceptance's 
consumer finance offices. Piedmont Premium provides loan financing for 
the payment of casualty insurance premiums under premium service agreements. 
through its ownership of all the outstanding stock of Sunland Life 
Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona ("Sunland Life"), acts as reinsurer 
for credit life, accident and health insurance directly related to extensions 
o f credit. Such activities have been determined by the Board to be closely 
Elated to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1),(9), and (10)). 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in accordance 
with sections 3 and 4 of the Act, and the ti,me for filing comments and 
views has expired. The Board has considered the applications and all 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified in 
Action 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)). 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the purpose 
o f becoming a bank holding company. Bank is the sixth largest banking 
°rganization in South Carolina, with deposits of approximately $11S 
and upon Board approval would become the fourth largest bank 
h°lding company in the State, controlling 3.7 per cent of total commercial 
bat*k deposits in South C a r o l i n a C o n s u m m a t i o n of the proposal herein 
i ^ l T b a n k i n g data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect bank holding 
^ctnpany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through July 31, 

3473 
-ii-
would neither alter existing banking competition nor significantly 
affect potential competition and would not result in an increase in 
concentration of banking resources in any relevant area. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of Applicant and Bank appear to be satisfactory and 
consistent with approval. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
needs of the communities involved, with respect to the acquisition of Bank, 
a re consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation 
°f the transaction would be in the public interest and that the acquisition 
o f Bank should be approved. 
World Acceptance has total assets of $6 million, and net loan 
receivables of $5.6 million5 aa of December 31, 1972* It operates 49 
consumer finance offices, 19 of which are in South Carolina, 17 in Georgia,-^ 
atl(1 13 in Texas. Applicant's banking subsidiary has eight offices located 
i n the relevant market area, which is the Greenville-Pickens SMSA. In 
market, World Acceptance operates five consumer finance offices. 
IT wever, World Acceptance is not a large factor in the small 
Personal loan market as its market share is less than 1 per cent, 
Represented by outstandings of $800,000, as of December 31, 1972. Competing 
in 
the same market are 58 consumer finance companies with 76 offices 
a n d 11 other commercial banks with 63 offices. Neither Bank nor World 
Acceptance is dominant in the relevant market. Considering the large 
Finance Corporation of Dawson, Dawson, Georgia, is a shell corpora-
Cnv"' A 1 1 o f i t s assets were sold on August 1, 1972, to Kentucky Finance 
0rPoration, Inc. 

3474 
-ii-
number of lending alternatives, the Board is of the opinion that Appli-
cant's acquisition of World Acceptance would not have a significant 
effect on existing or potential competition in the small consumer 
instalment loan market. World Acceptance also acts as an agent for the 
sale of credit insurance related to loans it originates. Due to the 
limited nature of this activity, Applicant's acquisition of World Acceptance 
w°uld not appear to have a significantly adverse effect on competition 
in this product line. Similarly, with respect to the acquisition of 
Piedmont Premium, it appears that in view of the limited nature of its 
activity, the acquisition of Piedmont by Applicant would not have any 
significant adverse competitive consequences. 
SBT was organized in 1966 for the principal purpose of purchasing 
banking facilities utilized by Bank and leasing such facilities to Bank. 
111 1967, SBT acquired all the shares of Sunland Life, an Arizona chartered 
c°mpany which engages solely in acting as reinsurer for certain credit 
*ife, accident and health insurance directly related to extensions of 
Credit by Bank. The ownership of shares of a company engaged in holding 
° r operating properties used wholly or substantially by any banking sub-
sidiary of a bank holding company is permissible under section 4(c)(1)(A) 
p. 
the Act without the need for prior Board approval. Accordingly, this 
Ord 
u er considers only the proposed insurance underwriting activities of 
S B T* As of December 31, 1972, SBT had total assets of $845,000, of which 
represented investment in the underlying equity of its insurance 

3475 
-ii-
subsidiary arid for the year ending that same date, SBT received gross 
Premiums of $530,000, Approval of Applicant's proposed acquisition 
d°es not appear to eliminate any competition in the underwriting of 
credit life and disability insurance. 
In adding credit life underwriting to the list of permissible 
activities for bank holding companies, the Board stated that, "To assure 
that engaging in the underwriting of credit life and credit accident 
and health insurance can reasonably be expected to be in the public 
interest, the Board will only approve applications in which an Appli-
Cant demonstrates that approval will benefit the consumer or result in 
other public benefits. Normally such a showing would be made by a 
Projected reduction in rates or increase in policy benefits due to bank 
company performance of this service." Applicant has committed 
within 30 days following consummation of the proposed acquisition, 
to reduce the rates charged by Sunland Life to its policy holders by 15 
cent on all credit life insurance policies, and by 5 per cent on all 
Credit accident and health insurance policies written by it in all States 
iri 
^hich it would offer such policies (Georgia and South Carolina). It 
is the Board's judgment that these benefits to the public outweigh any 
p°asibie adverse effects. 
In its consideration of this application, the Board has examined 
venant8 not to compete contained in employment agreements with the 
PtitlciPal executives of World Acceptance and Piedmont. The Board finds 
that hu 
cne provisions of these covenants (limited to three years and to 

6 -
3176 
localities where Southern Bancorporation would be engaged in the 
consumer 
licensed/finance business and the licensed insurance premium 
service business) are reasonable in scope, duration, and geographic 
a r e a and are consistent with the public interest. As the United 
States District Court for the Southern District of New York has stated 
i a S^ntex Laboratories, Inc. v. Norwich Pharmacal Company-^. 
While agreements not to compete have at times been 
used for the unlawful purpose of monopolizing a part of 
trade or commerce. . .it is hornbook law that a covenant 
not to compete ancillary to the sale of a business (or 
a part of a business), when reasonably limited as to time 
and territory, does not fall within the prohibitions of 
the Sherman Act. The question in every case is whether 
the restraint is reasonably calculated to protect the 
legitimate interest of the purchaser in what he has pur-
chased, or whether it goes so far beyond what is neces-
sary as to provide a basis for the inference that its real 
Purpose is the fostering of monopoly. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consum-
mation of the proposal would result in any undue concentration of 
resources, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound bank-
i n8 practices. 
Approval of the applications would give World Acceptance access 
t o Applicant's financial resources and enhance World Acceptance's com-
petitive effectiveness. Based upon the foregoing and other considerations 
reflected in the record, the Board has determined that the considerations 
affecting the competitive factors under section 3(c) of the Act and the 
balance of the public interest factors the Board must consider under 
Se°tion 4(c)(8) are favorable and that consummation of these proposals 
v°uld be in the public interest. 
^ 3 1 5 F. Supp. 45, at 56 (1970). 

3477 
-ii-
Accordingly, the applications are approved for the reasons 
summarized above. The acquisition o f Bank shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
o f this Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order; and the acquisitions of World Acceptance, Piedmont 
^emium, and SBT shall be consummated not later than three months 
after the effective date of this Order, unless such three month periods 
a r e extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. The determinations 
a s to the activities of World Acceptance, Piedmont Premium, and SBT is 
Object to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and 
the Board's authority to require such modification or termination of 
t h e activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the 
B°ard finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and 
pu*Poses of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued there-
under 
M or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,—'' effective September 19, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSE4L] 
E s t
 pP r°vaT of acquisition of Southern Bank and Trust Company and SBT Real 
She^6* 
V o t i n S f o r t h i s action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Gov 
* Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
v*tnor Daane. 
V a l of acquisition of World Acceptance Corporation and Piedmont Premium 
V 0 ^ i c e - 
Voting for this action: Governors Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. 
Abs
 
g aS®inst this act-ion: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governor Brimmer. 
erit and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 

3478 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I xrould deny the applications by Southern Bancorporation to 
Squire World Acceptance and Piedmont. My decision is based on the 
existence of covenants not to compete contained in the proposed employ-
ment contracts between World Acceptance and Piedmont and their principal 
executives. These two individuals have agreed, for a three year period 
Allowing termination of their employment, not to be associated with a 
c°mpetitor of World Acceptance or Piedmont. In effect, such action would 
Preclude the possibility of these individuals undertaking to provide an 
alternative source of consumer finance or insurance premium services 
those markets in which Southern Bancorporation would offer such services, 
majority has presented no evidence to show that these covenants are 
111 the public interest. For reasons stated more fully in my dissents 
t o the application of Orbanco, Inc., to acquire Far West Security Com-
Paay (59 Federal Reserve Bulletin 360-369 (1973)), and the application 
°t CBT Corporation to acquire General Discount Corporation (59 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 471 (1973)), it is my view such covenants do not serve 
Promote competition and should not receive the sanction of the Board. 
I Would deny these applications. 
SePtember 19, 1973 
