MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 26, 197 3 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Amendment to Regultion D, 
Reserves of Member Banks. 

4 t ) l l 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Sys tem on Monday, November 26, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Daane, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for 
Operations and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research 
and Economic Policy and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Broida, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office 
of Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. 
The Board unanimously approved the application 
°f Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, New York, New York, to 
establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, British 
West Indies. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Pennsylvania 
Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to acquire shares of British 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4G12 
11/26/73 
-2-
American Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and through that 
corporation to acquire shares of Diebold Computer Leasing, Limited, 
London, England, and its subsidiaries. 
A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Illinois 
Neighborhood Development Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of The South 
Shore National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
.Item No. 3. 
Central Bancshares of the South, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, 
had applied for approval to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
to The First State Bank of Oxford, Oxford, Alabama. 
In turn, the 
successor bank, Interim Bank of Oxford, Oxford, Alabama, had applied 
for approval to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of The 
First State Bank of Oxford. The Board unanimously approved both 
aPplications and authorized issuance of orders reflecting these decisions, 
copies of which are attached under Item No. 4. The Board also approved 
unanimously the application of Interim Bank of Oxford for membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to Interim Bank 
Oxford is attached as Item No. 5. 
At its meeting on August 23, 1973, the Board authorized publi-
cation for comment of a proposed amendment to Regulation D, Reserves of 

1G13 
11/26/73 
-3-
Hember Banks, that would clarify the definition of "gross demand 
deposits" for purposes of calculating reserves. 
In a memorandum of 
November 15, 1973, the Legal Division and the Divisions of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations and of Research and Statistics analyzed the 
responses received and recommended approval of the amendment as 
proposed. The Board unanimously approved the amendment. A copy of 
the Federal Register notice is attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Economic review. The regular weekly economic and financial 
review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared 
for the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with 
copies of the individual briefings. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

•&2L9? fa-
I ® * / 
•."7— 
4614 
B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• r T H F : 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 2.05H1 
Item No. 1 
11/26/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
U U W ^ E S P O N C E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
G J A R O 
November 26, 1973 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York 
23 Wall Street: 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
This is in reply to your request for permission to establish 
a branch in the Cayman Islands, which would operate under a limited 
license. The Board's policy has been to permit a bank to operate only 
a single limited license branch in the Bahamas and Cayman Islands ex-
cept for a period during the transfer of such operations from one to 
the other location. Accordingly, since your bank already has a branch 
this type in Nassau, Bahamas, the following permission is granted 
subject to the condition that your bank shall close its Bahamas branch. 
Within six months of the opening of the Cayman branch. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
permission to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, New York, 
ew York, pursuant to the previsions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Fed-
^ a l Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, 
ayman Islands, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the 
Provisions of such Sections and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
^ H be used for developing new international business and not as a 
^eans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
l s also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
m ay, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
l ng permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
ypes of activities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified; 
t|v. t1aG c°ndition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
e
 18 branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
f u s i o n s in provisos (1) and (2) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the fur-
Viii" CoiK* ^i-011 -hat adequate information covering the branch's operations 
and ^ 
mai'nL"aine^ a t your head office and will be available to the Board 
l t s accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly in-
c h^ n c d 
any modification in the branch's methods of operation, including 
n8 e« in any contract under which services are supplied to the branch. 

4G15 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
- 2 -
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable-
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limita-
tions on races of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the re-
serve requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemp-
tions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete 
abroad with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been 
and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a 
definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international 
transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances > or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
Poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In. view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance 
of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its affil-
iates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

•VoVco^-.. 
mMimmP' 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
nr T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
4G1G 
Item No. 2 
11/26/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
N U R R E F I P O N D T N C E 
T O 
T H C 
E U A N N 
November 26, 1973 
First Pennsylvania Corporation 
Fifteenth and Chestnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
1.9102 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 22., 1973 , the Board 
of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Section 4(c) 
(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and 
Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your corporation ("FPC") to 
purchase and hold directly or indirectly, 70 per cent of the shares 
of British American Holdings, Inc. ("BAH"), a Delaware Corporation, 
and acquire through BAH and hold, directly or indirectly, the 
shares of Dicbold Computer Leasing, Limited ("DCL"), London, England, 
and its subsidiaries, at a cost of approximately $5,000,000, provided 
such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
As subsidiaries of a bank holding company under Section 4(c) 
(13), BAH, DCL, and DCL's subsidiaries shall confine their activities 
to international or foreign banking and other international or foreign 
financial operations. In this regard, the above consent is granted 
on the condition that DCL reduce its 51 per cent interest in Hylovant, 
Limited, London,to less than 25 per cent by sale of shares to 
parties not affiliated with FPC and that FPC demonstrate to the 
Board that it in no manner controls or exercises directly or indirectly, 
a management interest in Hylovant, Limited, within two years from 
the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company and 
its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4617 
Item No. 3 
11/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ILLINOIS NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of a Bank Holding Company 
Illinois Neighborhood Development Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 
h a s applied for the Boardfs approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Co®Pany Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
trough acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
S°uth Shore National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois ("Bank"). 
Notice of the receipt of the application, affording opportunity 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views 
has expired and none has been timely received. The Board has considered 
th 
e appiicatlon l n light; o f t h e f a c t o r s s e t f o r t h i n § 3( c ) o f t h e A c t 
(l2 U.S.C, 1842(c)). 
Applicant is a non-operating corporation formed for the purpose 
of Quiring Bank, which has aggregate deposits of approximately 
$4? 
•8 million. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972.) Since 
pPUcant has no present operations or subsidiaries, consummation of the 
Pr°Posal would not adversely affect existing or potential competition or 
^Ve an adverse effect on any bank in the area. 
Applicant's financial resources and future prospects are dependent 
Potl those of Bank. Applicant's projected earnings appear to be sufficient to 
the debt which it will incur upon consummation of the proposed 
^action 
without adversely affecting Bank's capital structure. These 
^derations are consistent with approval of the application. 

-2-
4618 
Bank is the only bank in the South Shore community of Chicago, 
atl<i is located approximately eight miles south of Chicago's Loop. The 
immunity has recently undergone significant economic transition result-
ln8 in a decrease in the median income in South Shore relative to the 
city~wide me(jian. 
A g a r e a u i t j Bank's deposits have declined approxi-
, te5-V 31 per cent since 1968. This decline has inhibited Bank's 
a bUity t o g r a n t credit in the local community; and the dollar amount 
of Bank's loans to local borrowers has, accordingly, declined. Partly 
°r t h e a e reasons, Bank, in May, 1972, sought regulatory approval to 
r s i 
° C a t e l t s °nly Office to a site within Chicago's Loop. After two 
P b U c hearings and significant opposition by South Shore citizens, 
e Comptroller of the Currency disapproved relocation because, inter 
'to 
i>outh Shore National Bank has failed to show persuasive reason 
at thi 
3 time for abandoning its present service area aad leaving the 
Shore community without a strong, established and adequately 
apltLali2e(i commercial bank." 
Bank, under new management, has now committed itself 
c°ttmunity renewal and intends to reverse the outflow of deposits 
i n v o l v l n 8 itself in community affairs. Bank's present management 
k*8 had 
previous experience in the area of community renewal and 
C a competent to undertake such a project. In view of the 
£ ^ 
b l U t y afforded by the holding company structure and Applicant's 
Lment to operate Bank in a manner that is both prudent and re-
naive to the needs of the South Shore community, Applicant and 

46X9 
-3-
Bank should be able to expand and improve their services in the future. 
Accordingly, considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of Bank weigh toward approval of the 
aPplication. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served also weigh in favor of approval of the 
aPPlication. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction would be 
i n the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"^ effective November 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
voting for this action: Governors Daane, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. 
3er*t and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

4 6 2 0 
Item No. 4 
11/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CENTRAL BANCSHARES OF THE SOUTH, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Central Bancshares of the South, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, a 
b a n k h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
haS aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
8^2(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qUalifying shares) of the successor by merger to The First State Bank of 
ord, Oxford, Alabama ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged 
has n 
n o significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the 
8 shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the suc-
organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the 
Of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested' 
s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3/1 ^ 
the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
nas been received. The application has been considered in light of 
a C t 0 r s set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant presently controls four subsidiary banks with total 
A C S of $630.2 million. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1972.) 
4cqutsit.. 
J-l-ion of Bank will increase Applicant's share of state deposits from 
17 cent to 10.05 per cent, an insignificant increase, and will not 
A 
applicant's ranking among Alabama banking organizations. Accordingly, 
s*81m 
cion of Bank will not significantly affect statewide concentration. 

4621 
- 2 -
Applicant's nearest subsidiary, in Gadsden, Alabama, is located 
aPproximately 30 miles north of Oxford. Neither Bank nor the Gadsden bank 
j 
ves any loans or deposits from the service area of the other and no 
0ltlPetition exists between them. Furthermore, it does not appear that 
iSnXficant f u t u r e competition between them would develop in view of the 
S t a n c e between them and the large number of banks presently serving the 
Market 
area. The proposed acquisition has no anti-competitive effects and, 
C°rdlnBly, competitive considerations are consistent with approval of 
the aPplication. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant and 
Subsidiary banks are considered to be satisfactory and prospects for 
e*ch an 
PPear favorable. Banking factors are consistent with approval of 
the a 
PPlication. Applicant has proposed no changes in the services offered 
ank« However, Applicant does propose to research the market and then 
to the convenience and needs of the community of Bank. Probable 
Services include extended banking hours, trust services, overdraft loan 
s» and industrial development support from the Industrial Development 
H a r t m ent of Applicant's lead bank. In addition, the acquisition will 
V e , 
a s e the maximum loan limits of Oxford Bank, add flexibility for pro-
ln 
v*<ung s 
ervices, add depth to m a n a g e m e n t and s t r e n g t h e n Oxford Bank's capital 
ture« Considerations relating to convenience and needs of the community 
Served lend support to approval of the application. It is the Board'i 
to k 
n a t consummation of the proposed transaction would be in the public 
and that the application should be approved. 

4 6 J & 2 
-3-
i I- i 
On the basis of the record in this case, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. However, the transaction shall not be 
^ e (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
0f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
U n l e s s Such period is extended for good cause by the Federal Reserve Bank 
f Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 26, 1973. 
(Signed) 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Aba 
ting"for this action: Governors Daane, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. 
ent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
INTERIM BANK OF OXFORD 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
The Interim Bank of Oxford, Oxford, Alabama, a proposed state 
15ember bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied for the Board's 
aPProval, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), to acquire 
th e assets and assume the liabilities of the First State Bank of Oxford, 
0 vf 
£ord, Alabama (deposits of $15.5 million as of June 30, 1973) under the 
barter of Interim Bank and the name of Oxford Bank. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in form 
a
Pproved by the Board, has been published, and the Federal Reserve Bank 
Atlanta has requested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney 
VJCYYI 
eral> the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
CQ 
rPoration. The Board has considered the application in light of the 
*actors set forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
0l*3 summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating to the 
^Plication of Central Bancshares of the South, Inc., to acquire the 
Cessor by merger to The First State Bank of Oxford, Oxford, Alabama, 
that said merger shall not be made (a) before the thirtieth 

4624 
- 2 -
Calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 
^ t h s after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant 
to ^legated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Ak Voting for this action: Governors Daane, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. 
Se^t and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

4 6 2 5 
^OTCOw' 
mu 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/26/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
' 
ADORCOS orriCIAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
•* 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 26, 19 73 
Boaxd of Directors 
Interim Bank of Oxford 
Oxford, Alabama 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Interim Bank of Oxford, Oxford, 
Alabama, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta,subject 
to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety cf its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not. cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that Interim Bank of Oxford will not conduct a banking business with the 
public prior to its merger with The First State Bank of Oxford, Oxford, 
Alabama. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation 11, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

4 6 2 6 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, iri order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution should be transmitted 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary oi: the Board 
Enclosures 

4627 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/26/73 
[12 CFR Part 204] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Definition of Gross Demand Deposits 
On September 14, 1973, the Board of Governors announced that it 
considering changes in the definition of "gross demand deposits" to 
delude certain "other liability" accounts. 
(See 38 FR 25703). The 
Co®ment period has expired and the Board has decided, for the reasons 
S e a t e d in t h at earlier a n n o u n c e d , eo adopt the proposal. 
The Board has amended § 204.1(g) of Regulation D to read as 
foUovs: 
2°4*1 Definitions 
*
*
*
*
* 
(g) Gross demand deposits. 
* 
* 
* 
"Gross demand deposits" also includes any obligation to pay 
(or other instrument, device, or arrangement for the transfer of 
t 
drawn on the bank, where the account of the bank's customer has 
fill-
ceady been debited. 
*
*
*
*
* 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 26, 1973. 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SUA; I) 
