MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 3, 1973 

4712 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, December 3, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Broida, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Managing Director for Operations and Supervision 
Mr. Gramley, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The research divisions presented the regular weekly economic 
and financial review. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
1/ 
1/ 
Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4713 
12/3/73 
-2-
the review have been placed in the Board's files, as well as copies 
of the individual briefings. Mr. Rippey then commented on develop-
ments with respect to pending legislation of interest to the Board. 
Staff members who had attended only for purposes of the 
review then withdrew. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of First Bancorp of N.H., Inc., Exeter, New Hampshire, to 
acquire shares of the successor by merger to Laconia Peoples National 
Bank and Trust Company, Laconia, New Hampshire, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting this decision, A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved a report, for transmittal to 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of The Enosburg Falls National Bank, 
Enosburg Falls, Vermont, with Franklin Bank, St. Albans, Vermont. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
There is some competition existing between The Enosburg 
Falls National Bank and Franklin Bank, St. Albans. It seems 
improbable there would be a substantial increase in competition 
between proponents in the foreseeable future. Overall, the 
competitive effect of the proposed merger on competition would 
be slightly adverse. 
A draft report to the Comptroller of the Currency proposed to 
describe as "adverse" the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Peoples Bank and Trust Company of Fairfax, Fairfax County, 
Virginia, with Dominion National Bank, Baileys Crossroads, Virginia. 

4714 
12/3/73 
-3-
Discussion at today's meeting developed agreement to describe the 
competitive effect as "slightly adverse." The report was unanimously 
approved, for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, with 
the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is some competition existing between The Peoples 
Bank and Trust Company of Fairfax, Fairfax County, and Dominion 
National Bank, Baileys Crossroads, a subsidiary of Dominion 
Bancshares Corporation, Roanoke, a bank holding company. However, 
the resulting bank would hold only 4 per cent of the deposits in 
the Northern Virginia area, and numerous alternative banking 
facilities would remain. The overall competitive effect of the 
proposed merger would be slightly adverse. 
The meeting continued with limited staff attendance, including 
Messrs. Feldberg, Allison, Partee, Broida, Coyne, O'Connell, Bryant, 
and Gramley. 
Reserve requirements. Chairman Burns asked for views of the 
other Board members regarding a possible change in the marginal reserve 
requirement on large-denomination certificates of deposit. After brief 
discussion, it was understood that this matter would be discussed further 
later in the week. 
Governor Daane then withdrew. Staff members who returned to 
or joined the meeting at this point included the following: 
Mrs. Heller and Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 

4715 
12/3/73 
-4-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Timenes, Economist, Board Members' Offices 
Mr. Ryan, Supervisory Review Examiner, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Greene, Supervisory Review Examiner, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Bank holding company supervision. The Board had been increas-
ingly concerned regarding the implications of bank holding company 
debt. In particular, questions had been raised regarding the possible 
endangerment to subsidiary banks by high leveraging in the parent 
holding company, and whether the Board's supervisory function extended 
only to subsidiary banks or through them to the holding company and 
the possible demands that might be placed upon subsidiary banks to 
support nonbank subsidiaries„ The Board discussed these issues on 
April 13, 1973, and in June 1973 authorized the organization of three 
outside advisory groups to assist in analyzing the problem. The views 
of the consultant groups were summarized in a staff memorandum dated 
November 28, 1973. 
In another memorandum dated November 28, Messrs. Chase and 
Plotkin and Miss Greene stated that the consultants had been presented 
with three alternative approaches that the Board might follow in the 
supervision and regulation of the financial affairs of bank holding 
companies. The first was "strict regulation," calling for detailed 
examination and regulation and for treatment of nonbank affiliates much 
as if they were banks. The second alternative was "separateness," 

4716 
12/3/73 
-5-
under which the regulation of nonbank affiliates would be left to 
private market forces. Under this approach, banking subsidiaries 
would continue to be closely regulated and their transactions with 
nonbank affiliates subject to limitation and monitoring, in order to 
insulate subsidiary banks from difficulties that arise from operations 
of nonbank affiliates. The third alternative was a "composite" approach, 
in which both separateness of banks and supervision of nonbank activities 
would play a part; private market forces would be relied on to some 
extent, but bank examination procedures would be expanded, new monitor-
ing devices employed, and limited ad hoc examinations of certain aspects 
of nonbank operations would be conducted. The majority of consultant 
Group III had recommended the "separateness" approach. The Board's 
staff concurred with the recommendation of the majority of consultant 
Groups I and II of an approach that had come to be called "composite, 
leaning toward separateness." 
The recommended approach contemplated that both the Board and 
the private market would participate in policing the financial affairs 
of bank holding companies, but the Board would endeavor to maximize the 
role of private market forces and intervene only when the soundness of 
holding company banks was threatened. Intervention would be called for 
to prevent or remedy transactions between banks and their nonbank 
affiliates (defined to include both the parent and its nonbank subsidiaries) 
that would involve a weakening of the bank. In addition, the staff did 

47x7 
12/3/73 
-6-
not believe that the Board should ignore the possibility of a loss of 
public confidence in the banking system that might arise from the 
failure of a significant bank holding company or even, in some circum-
stances, the failure of a significant nonbanking subsidiary with which 
a major bank was closely identified in the public mind. The staff 
believed that the Board should aim to reduce this sense of identifica-
tion and to make clear that its primary concern was with the safety 
of banks, rather than the safety of creditors of holding companies 
and their nonbank affiliates. It seemed realistic to anticipate that, 
with proper encouragement, private market forces would assume an 
increasingly useful and dominant role in policing the financial affairs 
of nonbank affiliates. The major mechanism would be increasingly 
knowledgeable assessment of the quality of holding company debt and 
equity issues. 
The November 28 memorandum containing the staff's recommendations 
also set forth suggested implementing procedures and an expression of 
view that, once implemented, the program would require net additions 
to staff of less than 15 professionals plus a modest support staff, 
with expanded delegation of authority to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The principal theme underlying discussion at today's meeting 
related to the philosophical question whether the Board's supervisory 
responsibility stopped with subsidiary banks or extended also to their 
parent holding companies and their nonbank subsidiaries. One member of 

4718 
12/3/73 
-7-
the Board expressed the view that, unless it was possible to separate 
the bank's transactions completely from the rest of the holding company 
system with which it was associated, Congress would hold the Board 
accountable if a succession of failures of bank holding companies or 
their important nonbank subsidiaries occurred. Comments were made on 
the question whether or not a bank subsidiary could survive if its 
parent holding company or a major nonbank affiliate failed, and on the 
difficulty of preventing the use of a bank subsidiary's funds to rescue 
nonbank affiliates, even with a close monitoring system. A view was 
expressed that a thorough monitoring system would require far more in 
manpower than the staff had suggested. 
The need for timely intervention was stressed. At present, 
the Board could intervene only when an application was before it, 
and the submission of applications often could be avoided. In order 
to strengthen its intervention capability, the Board should push for 
legislation providing cease-and-desist authority with respect to bank 
holding companies. A note of caution was sounded regarding the possi-
bility of over-regulating bank holding companies; they might be so 
burdened with limitations on activities or with capital requirements 
that their ability to compete with independents not so regulated would 
be diminished. 
The continuing discussion emphasized that because there were 
so many gray areas, the Board was unable at present to reach any firm 

12/3/73 
-8-
decision, and it was suggested that the Board's thinking might be 
more readily crystallized if the staff could provide details regard-
ing the implementing steps it had proposed. Discussion of the 
resource investment this would require led to the further suggestion 
that this fleshing out could be submitted in stages; for the staff's 
general guidance, it might be assumed that the Board regarded the 
approach recommended as moving in the right direction. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that 
the staff would proceed in the manner suggested, and that a draft 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration of a public statement 
that might be issued regarding the attention the Board was giving 
to the problem. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

_ 4720 
FEDERAL kESfekvfe SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
12/3/73 
FIRST BANCORP OF N.H., INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Bancorp of N.H., Inc., Exeter, New Hampshire, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
the Board's approval under section 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of the successor by merger 
to Laconia Peoples National Bank and Trust Company, Laconia, New Hampshire 
("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except 
as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accord-l 
ingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization is 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and none has been received. The Board has considered the application in 
the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act^(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant presently has one subsidiary bank,~ Exeter Banking Com-
pany, Exeter, New Hampshire and is in the State's ninth largest banking 
2/ 
organization, with deposits of $31.8 million 
representing 2.4 per cent 
of total commercial bank deposits in the State. Acquisition of Bank (deposits 
of $21.8 million) would increase Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits 
in New Hampshire by 1.6 per cent. 
Bank ranks fifteenth in size among the State's commercial banks, 
and is the largest of five commercial banks with offices in Belknap County, 
lTApplicant has filed contemporaneous applications to acquire The Merchants 
National Bank of Manchester, Manchester (deposits of $37.5 million) and 
Concord National Bank, Concord (deposits of $37.7 million). 
2/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1973. 

4721 
- 2 -
• ' 
' 
, 
, 
r' 
which approximates the relevant market. Bank operates its four offices in 
Laconia, a city of 16,000 population, located in central New Hampshire. 
Applicant's banking subsidiary operates in Rockingham County in 
the southeastern sector of New Hampshire. The banking market served by 
Applicant is entirely separate from the Laconia area served by Bank, and 
the offices of the two institutions are approximately 60 miles distant. 
Consequently, there is no significant competition existing between Applicant 
and Bank. Further, it appears unlikely that any meaningful competition 
would develop between Applicant and Bank in the future. New Hampshire's 
restrictive branch banking law prevents either organization from establishing 
de novo branches in the area served by the other. Because of the distances 
separating the institutions and their modest resources, the possibility of 
either organization entering the other's area by establishing a de novo 
bank is remote. Accordingly, approval of the proposed transaction will 
have no adverse competitive effects, and may in fact be procompetitive in 
view of the recent acquisition of the only other commercial bank in Laconia 
2/ 
by the State's largest banking organization. 
Moreover, there are four 
savings banks in the Belknap market with combined deposits of $85 million. 
These institutions, two of which are larger than Bank, have a significant 
competitive impact for time and savings deposits. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and Bank are 
satisfactory and lend some support toward approval. Future prospects of 
Applicant and Bank are considered satisfactory, and affiliation with a 
I T See the Board's Order of February 1, 1973, approving the acquisition of 
The Lakeport National Bank of Laconia by Indian Head Banks Inc. 
ft

4 7 £ 2 
-3" 
' i ' 
, ; t , . 
s 
holding company should itnpirove Bahk's future prospects. Furthermore, the 
ability of Applicant and Bank to compete against all financial institutions-
including commercial banks and mutual savings banks—should be enhanced 
by consummation of the proposal. Although there is no evidence to indicate 
that the banking needs of the communities involved are not being adequately 
served, the convenience and needs factor is consistent with approval of 
the application. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction would 
be in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
w 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
