MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 23, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Friday, March 23, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive 
Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, 
Division of International Finance 2f 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Entered meeting, withdrew, and reentered at points indicated in 
minutes. 
2/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present during 
the economic and financial review. 

J t i 
3/23/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board approved, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting, the application of National Newark and Essex Bank, 
Newark, New Jersey, to establish a shell branch in Grand Cayman, Cayman 
Islands. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 1. In connection with this application, Governor Mitchell 
expressed his concern about the establishment of additional branches 
in the Cayman Islands and indicated that in the future he would oppose 
such applications. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bankers Trust 
Company, New York, New York, to organize an Edge corporation in Los 
Angeles, California, to be known as Bankers Trust International (Pacific) 
Corporation. A copy of the letter informing the applicant of this action 
and transmitting a preliminary permit is attached as Item No. 2. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated March 20, 1973, the Board unanimously approved a 
letter to Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, denying relief 
from the Board's order of September 21, 1972, approving the Corporation's 
acquisition of Manatee National Bank of Bradenton, Bradenton, Florida. 
The issue involved was whether a director of Manatee National Bank of 
Bradenton and two other affiliated banks should be granted an extension 
°f time in which to sever an interlocking relationship either with 
Manatee National Bank of Bradenton or with the two other area banks, 
in light of Manatee National Bank's acquisition by Southeast Banking 

<J78 
3/23/73 
-3-
Corporation. A copy of the letter sent to the Corporation is attached 
as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of New Jersey 
National Corporation, Trenton, New Jersey, to acquire shares of Under-
wood Mortgage & Title Co., Irvington, New Jersey, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Barnett 
Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Southern Bank of West Palm Beach, West Palm Beach, and Florida Southern 
Bank, Palm Beach County (P.O. Lake Worth), both in Florida, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 5. Comment was made that any one application of Barnett Banks 
of Florida did not raise a question but collectively the holding company 
was so heavily represented it was getting out of hand. Governor Robertson 
indicated that hereafter he would not approve any applications of Barnett 
Banks of Florida appearing on the consent calendar. 
It was indicated 
that a staff study would be made to analyze the concentration of 
Barnett Banks of Florida and that the study would be broadened to 
include an analytical appraisal of the concentration of First at Orlando 
Corporation, Orlando, Florida, and all other bank holding companies that 
had been aggressive in acquiring banks from 1971-1972. 

3/23/73 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southwest 
Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to Arlington Bank of Commerce, Arlington, Texas, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mountain 
Banks, Ltd., Colorado Springs, Colorado, to merge with Boulder National 
Corporation, Boulder, Colorado, thereby acquiring shares of Boulder 
National Bank. 
Issuance of an order reflecting that decision was 
_authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
As recommended in a memorandum dated March 19, 1973, from the 
Legal Division, the Board unanimously approved a letter to General 
Financial Systems, Riviera Beach, Florida, granting its request for 
an additional extension of time, not to exceed 60 days, in which to 
resubmit an amended application to retain shares of Tri-City Bank, 
Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. A copy of the letter is attached as 
.Item No. 8. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Legal Division dated March 20, 1973, the Board 
unanimously approved an amendment to its Rules Regarding Delegation of 
Authority, effective March 23, 1973, to delegate to the Federal Reserve 
Banks authority to grant to a bank holding company a 90-day extension 
°f time in which to file an annual report and, for good cause shown, 

383 
3/23/73 
-5-
to grant ail additional extension of time, not to exceed 90 days. A 
copy of the amendment is attached under Item No. 9, along with a copy 
of the transmittal letter to the Reserve Banks. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting at this point. 
The research staff presented the regular weekly economic and 
financial review. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then commented on pertinent legislative matters. 
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting at this point, as did 
members of the staff who had been present only for the weekly review. 
Branch building construction. Today's agenda called for 
consideration of a draft letter to Chairman Patman of the House Bank-
ing and Currency Committee regarding legislation to raise the dollar 
limits for construction of Federal Reserve Bank branch buildings. 
After discussion it was understood that a revised draft letter 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Chairman Burns reentered the meeting during consideration of 
the following item but abstained from the discussion. 
Western Pennsylvania National Bank and Equimark Corporation. 
A memorandum dated February 27, 1973, from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation described the capital positions of Western Pennsylvania 

' 381 
3/23/73 
-6-
National Bank and Equimark Corporation, both in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
Western Pennsylvania National Bank had two applications and Equimark 
Corporation one application pending before the Board that were to be 
considered today. 
The Board's concern about these applications stemmed from the 
fact that Western Pennsylvania National Bank had experienced rapid 
growth over the past few years, which had resulted in capital needs 
that had not been met by retained earnings. Equimark Corporation was 
indebted to the extent that it was felt that it should not expand at all. 
After discussion of the applications, the Board (1) agreed to 
permit Western Pennsylvania National Bank to withdraw its application 
to organize an Edge corporation to be known as Western Penn International 
Investment Corporation; and (2) approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissenting, the application of Western Pennsylvania National Bank to 
establish a branch in Luxembourg. The Board then denied the application 
°f Equimark Corporation to acquire the assets of six offices of First 
Provident Company, Inc., Sanford, North Carolina, with the understanding 
that an order reflecting that decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Attached as Item No. 10 is a copy of the letter sent to Western 
Pennsylvania National Bank approving the establishment of a branch in 
Luxembourg. It was also understood that Western Pennsylvania National 
Bank would be informed of the Board's decision to permit it to withdraw 
application to organize an Edge corporation. 

3/23/73 
-7-
Comments were made that as more and more applications were 
coming before the Board involving capital adequacy it was apparent 
that the Board was suffering from lack of a cohesive document setting 
forth i ts philosophy. After discussion it was understood that a staff 
memorandum would be prepared for the Board's consideration on present 
Board views on bank capital. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. The boards of directors of nine Federal Reserve 
Banks had voted to establish, subject to review and determination by 
the Board of Governors, rates of 6 or 6-1/2 per cent on discounts for 
and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal 
Reserve Act. The directors had also acted to establish appropriately 
corresponding subsidiary rates on advances under other sections of the 
Act. Actions to raise the rate from 5-1/2 to 6 per cent were taken by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis and Dallas on March 8 (subse-
quently reaffirmed on March 22), the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco on March 15, the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on March 19, 
and the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Chicago, and Kansas City on 
March 22. The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia 
ar*d New York had voted to raise the rate to 6-1/2 per cent on March 15 
a nd 16, respectively, but the Philadelphia Bank subsequently proposed 
a smaller increase to 6 per cent on March 22. 

383 
3/23/73 
-8-
Comments received from the Federal Reserve Banks proposing 
higher discount rates referred to the recent increases in short-term 
market interest rates and to the international monetary situation. 
The view was expressed that an advance in the discount rate would be 
consistent with developments in the domestic economy and would strengthen 
the dollar in foreign exchange markets. 
There was general agreement among the Board members that a 
strong case could be made on economic grounds for an increase in the 
discount rate to 6 per cent. It was argued that an increase of 1/2 
percentage point would bring the discount rate into better alignment 
with short-term market interest rates and would validate the recent 
policy decisions of the Federal Open Market Committee. Views differed, 
however, on the appropriate timing of such an increase. One view 
favored relatively prompt action and stressed the need for a clear 
signal of the System's determination to use the various instruments 
at its disposal to resist inflation. On the other hand, it was sug-
gested that an increase at a time when some major banks were in the 
Process of raising their prime lending rates might foster a general 
advance in bank and other interest rates and perhaps lead to the impo-
sition of controls on market interest rates. Several Board members 
indicated that they would not favor a 1/4 percentage point increase 
the discount rate, since it would be likely to be misinterpreted 
under prevailing circumstances. 

984 
3/23/73 
-9-
After further discussion it was agreed that a decision on the 
discount rate actions of the nine Federal Reserve Banks would be deferred 
in order to provide an opportunity to assess market and related credit 
developments. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B C 3 A R D 
OF 
G 3 V E R N D R S 
afr. t h e 
item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/23/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 23, 1973 
National Newark and Essex Bank 
744 Broad Street 
Newark, New Jersey 
07101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to National Newark and Essex Bank ("NNEB"), 
Newark, New Jersey, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Grand Cayman, Cayman 
Islands, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the 
provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in.the 
United .States. It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
of these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
or modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
without benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7 (b), and (3) the further condition that adequate infor-
mation covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your 
head office and will be available to the Board and its accredited 
Representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any 
Modification in the branch's methods of operation, including changes 
l n any contract under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Permission to establish the proposed branch is also granted 
subject to the condition that NNEB shall liquidate its Nassau branch 
Within six months after opening che Cayman Islands branch. 

National Newark and Essex Bank 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Re serve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in location 
of the branch in the Cayman Islands. 
Under S ection .19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents-at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. ' in view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the 
balance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that 
i-n the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be 
placed on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, 
x t is understood that any investment required will be made within " the -
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and 
affil iates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
.-•bVcoV,;.. 
D F T H E 
Item No. 2 
m
S
m
F
E
D
E
R
A
L 
RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/23/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F T I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 23, 1973 
Bankers Trust Company 
16 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated December 11, 1972, 
of Bankers Trust International (Pacific) Corporation, Los Angeles, 
California, and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing 
that Corporation to exercise such of the powers conferred by Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and pre-
liminary to its organization, 
• . 
Except as..provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not'exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
.(2)-.that a majority-of the shares, of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is_owned by 
citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
There-
after, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment of the 
remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with 
law. The request for a final permit should be forwarded to the Board 
via the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Bankers Trust 
International (Pacific) Corporation will have no separate base under 

988 
Bankers Trust Company 
-,-2-
the foreign credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans and 
investments will need to be made under the ceiling of Bankers Trust 
Company. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given on the con-
dition that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation will 
be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply 
to Bankers Trust Company and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 
• 
• 

989 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
OFIHE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 Q 5 5 I 
March 23, 1973 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
' 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in .it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated December 11, 1972, of BANKERS TRUST INTERNATIONAL (PACIFIC) 
CORPORATION duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
BANKERS TRUST INTERNATIONAL (PACIFIC). CORPORATION is authorized to 
exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
•issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with the 
Provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Pveserve System issued pursuant 
thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B y 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1)30 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 3 
.-^OVGOV^-. 
O F T H E 
3/23/73 
T m M k - 
f e d e r a l r e s e r v e 
s y s t e m 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2055J 
A D D R E S S 
O FF\ C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 26, 1973 
Mr. Charles J. Zwich, President 
Southeast Banking Corporation 
100 South Biscayne Boulevard 
Miami, Florida 
33131 
Dear Mr. Zwich: 
# ^ 
This refers to the request by Mr. H. S. Moody, which was 
joined in by your holding company, The Island Bank, Holmes Beach, 
Florida, Westside National Bank, Bradenton, Florida, and Manatee 
National Bank of Bradenton, Bradenton, Florida, that Mr. H. S. Moody 
be permitted to serve on the boards of the three banks until their 
1974 annual meetings. 
M
 
I n acting on your Section 3(a)(3) application to acquire 
Manatee National Bank of Bradenton, which was approved by Board Order 
°n September 21, 1972, the Board indicated its understanding that 
common officer and director relationships among the three banks would 
,c terminated upon consummation of the proposal. 
On the basis of the 
information now presented, the Board continues to believe that 
r. Moody's relationships existing either with Manatee National Bank 
ot Bradenton or with Westside National Bank and the Island Bank should 
e severed promptly in accordance with the Board's Order. Advice of 
he fact of termination should be given in writing to the Federal 
deserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

,. _ 
9 3 1 
Item No. 4 
3/23/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NEW JERSEY NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Underwood Mortgage & Title Co. 
New Jersey National Corporation, Trenton, New Jersey, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
shares of Underwood Mortgage & Title Co., Irvington, New Jersey ("Company"), 
and to indirectly acquire through that acquisition: G. B. Underwood & 
Associates, Inc. ("Underwood"), and Bombast Corporation ("Bombast"), both 
°f Irvington, New Jersey. Company engages in the origination and ser-
vicing of real esUte mortgage loans for its own account and others. 
Such activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related 
to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (3)). Underwood 
acts as a mortgage broker, arranging the sale and purchase of mortgages 
a national basis. Bombast acquires for resale foreclosed properties 
Ut*der mortgages made by its parent company. Such activities are per-
missible as incidental to activities determined by the Board to be 
closely related to banking. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Pe*sons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
b*en duly published (37 Federal Register 24136). Subsequently, Applicant 

s
s
z 
-2-
vithdrew its request to acquire an inaurance agency subsidiary of Company, 
so that only the mortgage banking activities of Company and its subsidi-
s e s , Underwood and Bombast, are dealt with herein. The time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and none relating to the mortgage banking 
activities of Company h&s been received. 
Applicant controls two banks with aggregate deposits of $601 
m i U i o n , representing 3.4 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
in New Jersey, Applicant1s lead bank, New Jersey National Bank, 
Trenton, New Jersey ("Bank"), with deposits of $600.6 million, is the 
la*gest bank in the Trenton banking market, controlling 47 per cent of 
c 
1/ 
°nurtercial bank deposits in that market. 
Bank is engaged in extending 
Credit secured by real property through permanent mortgage loans on one-
f° U r family residential properties. 
It does not service loans for others 
n°r at present own any nonbanking subsidiaries. 
Company engages in extending credit secured by real property 
trough (1) permanent mortgage loans on one-four family residential 
Pr°Perties, and (2) permanent mortgage loans on income producing prop-
rties. Company also engages in mortgage servicing. 
Based upon a 1971 
ITl0rtgage servicing portfolio of approximately $160 million, Company ranks 
^ e fifth largest mortgage banking firm with offices in New Jersey 
^ 
150th largest mortgage firm in the country. 
Applicant's second bank, New Jersey National Bank of Princeton, 
C e ton Borough, New Jersey, is a new bank opened in January, 1973. 

i. I 
9 9 3 
-3-
Company's activity is principally confined to the Greater 
Newark market, while Bank operates in the Trenton and Asbury Park 
markets. Of Company's total mortgage originations of $60 million in 
1971, only $2.4 million were derived from Bank's market areas. 
During 
the same period, Bank's mortgage originations approximated $30 million, 
of which only $213,000 were derived from the market served by Company. 
In view of the relatively large number of other mortgage lenders in 
these markets, elimination of this small amount of local competition 
would, in the Board's opinion, have no significantly adverse effect 
on mortgage lending in the area. Moreover, no significant potential 
competition would be foreclosed upon approval of the proposed trans-
ition since it appears Company would have difficulty expanding into 
°ther markets without the infusion of additional capital and greater 
access to financial markets. 
It appears that consummation of this proposed transaction 
w°uld not result in any undue concentration of resources, conflicts 
o f interests, unsound banking practices, or any other adverse effects 
° n the public interest. However, approval of this proposal would make 
Mailable to Company the financial resources and expertise of Bank 
and enable both to expand their services to the public and increase 
competition in their respective market areas. 
Based upon the foregoing and Applicant's commitment that 
Company w m 
n o t acquire for investment equity participations in 
r e ai estate through its subsidiary, Bombast, the Board has determined 

334 
-4-
that the balance of the public interest factors it is required to consider 
under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby 
approved. This determination is subject to the conditions set forth 
in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require 
such modification or termination of the activities of a holding company 
°r any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure com-
pliance vith the provisions and purposes of the Act, and the Board's 
regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion 
thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective March 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
^ 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, and Governors 
Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
airman Burns and Governor Daane. 

3sr 
Item No. 10 
3/23/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A ct, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Southern Bank of West Palm Beach, West Palm Beach, Florida 
("West Palm Beach Bank"), and Florida Southern Bank, Palm Beach 
County (p.o. Lake Worth), Florida ("Palm Springs Bank"). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
Uteres ted persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
a n d views has expired, and the Board has considered the applications 
a a d all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 37 banks with aggregate deposits of 
H Hilton, representing 7 per cent of total deposits of commercial 
bar*ks in the State and is the second largest banking organization 
in p 
Florida. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect 
company formations and acquisitions approved through Febru-
a t y 28» 1973.) The acquisitions of West Palm Beach Bank ($24 
mtii ^ 
A1on deposits) and Palm Springs Bank ($6 million deposits) 
° U l d increase Applicant's share of Florida deposits by two-tenths 
of 0 
e Percentage point, and it would remain the second largest 
a t e banking organization. 

... 
9 9 G 
-2-
The proposed subsidiaries are located in the West Palm Beach 
banking market, and the proposal would represent Applicant's initial 
entry into the area, West Palm Beach Bank and Palm Springs Bank hold 
2.66 and .6 per cent of total market deposits and rank eighteenth and 
twenty-sixth, respectively, among the 28 banks represented in this 
Market area. Seven of the market's 16 banking organizations are multi-
tank holding companies, two of which hold approximately 34 per cent 
o f aggregate market deposits. Although West Palm Beach and Palm 
Springs Banks are four miles apart they do not actively compete with 
e^ch other due to the fact that Palm Springs Bank was organized in 
l9?0 by directors and principal stockholders of West Palm Beach Bank, 
and both are under common management and control. 
It appears that 
n° Present or future competition between the banks would be eliminated 
ky this proposal. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary banking office is located 
4 0 miles south of the banks. There is no significant competition 
between these banks and any of Applicant's subsidiary offices, and 
j 
U e to the densely populated areas, the distances involved, and 
Fl 
AOrida's restrictive branching laws, it appears that there is 
little likelihood of the development of future competition. 
Con-
sequently, competitive considerations are consistent with approval 
° f the applications. 

337 
-3-
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant 
and its subsidiaries are satisfactory in view of Applicant's commitment 
to improve the capital position of its banks, and prospects for the group 
are favorable. The capital of West Palm Beach Bank has been recently 
increased and the financial condition of both banks is satisfactory, 
their managements capable, and prospects favorable. 
Banking factors 
are consistent with approval of the applications. Although the 28 
Market banks satisfactorily serve the more important banking needs 
the area, Applicant's proposed expansion and improvement of services 
now available at the banks, especially development of trust services 
a t West Palm Beach Bank, would benefit the public and enable the banks 
to become stronger competitors with the larger area banking offices. 
Accordingly, considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
^ e communities to be served are consistent with and lend slight 
SuPPort toward approval of the applications. 
It is the Board's 
^dgment that consummation of the proposed acquisitions would be in 
t^e public interest and that the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
f°r the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 

337 
-3-
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Pursuant to delegated authority, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective March 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, and Governors 
Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 

999 
Item No. 10 
3/23/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval under S 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
tn 
acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
sha*es) of the successor by merger to Arlington Bank of Commerce, Arlington, 
X a s ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
e*cept as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization 
is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
KD> of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
nas been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
n Xl-8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fourth largest multi-bank holding company in Texas, 
J-s twelve banks with aggregate deposits of $1,113 million, representing 
^•7 p e 
cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
(All 
k^nki 
n8 data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect holding company formations 
acquisitiong approved by the Board through January 29, 1973.) Acquisi-
tion of n 
Jiank ($7.6 million of deposits) would increase Applicant's share 
of d e 
p°sits i n the State insignificantly and its ranking among banking organi-
the State would be unchanged. 

-2-
, 1 0 1 ) 0 
Bank, the fourth largest of five banking organizations in 
Arlington, Texas, controls approximately 5 per cent of aggregate deposits 
o f commercial banks in that community, which is located approximately 
halfway between Dallas and Fort Worth. Applicant has two subsidiaries in 
Dallas-Fort Worth area, the First Denton County National Bank, Denton, 
Texas ($36 million of deposits) located approximately 35 miles from Bank; 
a n d 
Continental National Bank ($194 million of deposits) located in down-
town Fort Worth approximately 12 miles from Bank. No significant competition 
e*ists between Bank and either of Applicant's nearest subsidiary banks. 
I view of Bank's small size, its primarily suburban-retail character and 
th 
G Presence of a large number of banks located in the intervening area, 
it: does not appear that any significant competition would develop in the 
f u t u r e between Bank and Applicant's subsidiary banks. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that 
^summation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect present 
Potential competition in any relevant area. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries and Bank are regarded 
as 3atisfactory and consistent with approval. 
The Arlington area is the 
e oj 
additi( 
o f a new regional airport serving the Dallas-Fort Worth area. 
The 
onal economic development resulting from establishment of this 
^aciXit y can be expected to increase demands upon Bank and other banks in 
the a r 
e a for banking services not presently available through these 
i n s tituM 
Lions. As a subsidiary of Applicant, Bank would be able to draw 

101)1 
-3-
uPon Applicant' s pool of financial, managerial and technical resources to 
Provide additional banking services for residents of this area as demand 
develops. Convenience and needs considerations are therefore consistent 
with approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
W° U l d b e in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
bef°re the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
e r 
(b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
r d e r» unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the 
e Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective March 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
Mitv°Uin8 f° r t h i s a c ti° n5 
v i c e Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Chai^* 1 , Brimmer, Shechan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
m a n Burns and Governor Daane. 

. 1002 
Item No. 7 
3/23/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MOUNTAIN BANKS, LTD. 
Order Approving Merger of Bank Holding Companies and 
Acquisition of Bank 
Mountain Banks, Ltd., Colorado Springs, Colorado, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
fo* the Board's approval under § 3(a)(5) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(5)) 
to 
m e rge with Boulder National Corporation, Boulder, Colorado, a registered 
holding company, and to thereby acquire all of the voting shares of 
Boulder National Bank, Boulder, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
^ersons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
® 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in Colorado, 
° n t r o l s five banks with aggregate deposits of $195.6 million, representing 
lightly ieSg than 4.0 per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks 
G°lorado. 
Upon acquisition of Bank, Applicant's share of commercial 
k^nk H 
deposits in the State would increase insignificantly and it would 
k^come t-u 
*-ne seventh largest banking organization in the State. 
Bank, with deposits of $15,1 million, is the fourth largest of 
si* banU-
n Ks in the city of Boulder and the sixth largest of thirteen banks 
co m p a^ n k i n8 <!ata are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect bank holding 
J ^ormations and acquisition* approved through December 31, 1972. 

1003 
-2-
i n Boulder County. Bank is located approximately 40 miles from Ap-
PUcant's closest subsidiary bank. Due to the distances separating 
Ra 1 
and Applicant's existing subsidiary banks and the number of com-
peting banks in the intervening area, it does not appear that consummation 
o f the proposed transaction would eliminate any significant existing or 
p°tential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
PPlieant and its existing subsidiary banks appear generally satisfactory 
consistent with approval, particularly in view of Applicant's commit-
ment to 
° augment the capital of its existing subsidiary banks within the 
year. The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Ba 1 
are satisfactory, taking into account Applicant's commitment to 
crease Bank's capital by $750,000 upon acquisition. The banking factors 
°nsistent with and 
lend some weight toward approval of the applica-
tion 
n. . , 
ile the banking needs of the area appear to be adequately met at 
P r e s e n t 
a 
> Applicant's acquisition of Bank and its addition to Bank's 
capi-
tal , 
0 u d enable Bank to expand and improve its services. 
Considerations 
te*att 
8 to the convenience and needs of the community to be served are 
c°nsigt 
with approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment 
a t the 
^ 
Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that 
^Plication should be approved. 
°n the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
ason8 summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
the 
e thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 

. 1004 
-3-
°*der, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective March 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
2j 
— — 
^ 
J r i
 V°ting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
itaner, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
VGrnor Daane. 

b
d
a
r
d 
d f 
g
o
v
e
r
n
o
r
s 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No, 
3/23/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 23, 1973 
Mr. Jerry Thomas, President 
General Financial Systems 
First Marine Bank Office Building 
Riviera Beach, Florida 
33404 
Dear Mr. Thomas: 
This is in response to your letter of March 2, 1973, and 
Mr. Tucker's telegram of March 19, 1973, requesting, in essence 
that 
the Board grant your company an additional extension or time, not .n 
excess of 60 days, in which to resubmit an amended § 
tion to retain shares of Tri-City Bank, Palm Beach Gardens, H o n d a . 
Your company's request for an extension of time in which 
to resubmit an amended application to retain shares of Tri-City Ban, 
has been granted by the Board. It is the Board's ^erstanding th.t 
vour company will make every effort to file such applicationby 
April 22, 1973, but such application will be filed, m any event, no 
iater than May 22, 1973. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1006 
1 
l i f e 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F" T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
3/23/73 
S-2231 
A D D P E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
E . O A R D 
March 28, 1973 
Enclosed is a copy of an amendment to the Board's Rules 
Regarding Delegation of Authority. 
The Annual ^eoort form now limits a reserve Bank to the 
Ranting of one 30-day extension of time for a bank holding company 
t o file its annual report. The purpose, of the enclosed amendment is 
to enable a Reserve Ban!; to grant to a bank holding comnany ?n 
extension of time (up to 90 days) in which to file an annual report; 
if the circumstances warrant; and, for good cause shown, a Federal 
Reserve Bank nay grant an additional extension of time to a bank 
•oldino ccmnany in which to file its annual renort, not to exceed 9 n 
eays. 
In order effectively to administer its responsibilities under 
_ 
Act, the Board regards It as important that bank holding company 
annual reports be filed within three months after the end of the fiscal 
year, or as close to that date as nossible. 
Therefore, it is expected 
the Reserve Banks will grant an extension of time up to 90 days 
a bank holding company onlv in circumstances where a bank holding 
Company has demonstrated a valid and persuasive business reason for 
filing its annual renort within the time prescribed in the Form 
^ 
for needing the requested extension. 
Any additional extension of 
,QG beyond the 90 days should be granted only In exceptional circum-
p 
U C C S aRC* o n l y after a bank holding company has demonstrated to a 
t o - v e '-ank that the holding company has exercised its best efforts 
ile the annual report within the first 90-day extension of time. 
This amendment is effective as of T'arch 23, 1973. 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
/ 
/> 
/ 
V/' ' / c"' 
^ l o ^ u r e 
/ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Iwf 
01- ALL VElhl-RM 
KF8EKVE BANKS 
- 
m 
t h e 
v i a : 
Y v i s w x r s 
w 
c h a n g e o r 
b p a n o h f . f 

.. 1 0 0 7 
S-2231-a 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS CF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265—RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Approval of Extension of Time Regarding 
Batik Holding Companies Filing Annual Reportr 
In order to delegate to the Federal Reserve Banks authority to 
e^ant bank holding companies extensions of time in which to file annual 
reports to the Board, § 265.2(f) Is amended by adding subparagraph (2.7) 
to read as follows: 
$ 265.2 
.Specific functions delegated to Board employees and Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
>'•• 
k 
k 
k 
* 
(!) Each Federal Reserve Bank is authorized, 
to member banks 
0 1 otner indicated organizations headquartered In its district or under sub-
Paragraph (25) of this paragraph, as to its officers; 
* 
k 
k 
k 
k 
(?7) Under the. provisions of section 5(c) of the Bank Holding 
Co*pany Act, aa anended (12 U.S.C. 1844(c)), to grant to a bank holding 
~0rtilMi-.y a 90-day extension of time in which to file an annual report; 
good cause shown an additional extension of time, not to 
C>:C(icd 20 days, may be grunted. 
The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
*Q' a 11 
'-''g to notice and nubile participation and to deferred effective 
di'itca v. 
» v.ero net followed in connection with the adoption of this amendment, 

; i o o 
-2-
because the rule contained therein is procedural in nature and accord-
ingly does not constitute a substantive rule subject to the requirements 
°f such section. 
Effective date. This amendment is effective as of the date of 
this Order. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 23, 1973, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan ~Smi th 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 

1009 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
OF 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 10 
3/23/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 26, 1973 
Western Pennsylvania National Bank 
Fifth Avenue at Smithfield 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
15230 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
l t s permission to Western Pennsylvania National Bank, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Luxembourg, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of 
Regulation M. 
bus 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
m e s s on or before April 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall 
e deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
^eserve Bank of Cleveland, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
°ard should also be promptly informed of any future change in lo-
cation of the branch in Luxembourg. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
P°ses of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the 
ance of payments, the above consent is given with the understanding 
, 
t la the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will 
D e rj 1 n t 
a°ea on resources obtained outside the United States. 
Furthermore, 
. t
IS understood that the investment required will be made in conformity 
n the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank 
d n d its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
