MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 26, 1973 

i 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 26, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr, Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Bilby, Consultant on Federal Reserve 
Lending 
Mr. Feldberg of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York 
Mrs. Semia and Mrs. Scott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have 
been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
1/ ~ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4 C 
1/26/73 
-2-
Messrs. Ring arid Bilby reported on current borrowings at 
the discount window by New York City banks. Mr. Cardon then commented 
on Congressional developments of interest to the System, and Governor 
Mitchell reported on the discussion of NOW accounts at a meeting of 
the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
Staff members who had attended the meeting only for the 
economic and financial review then withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco on January 18 and by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston on January 22, 1973, of the rates on advances and discounts 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Peoples 
Bank and Trust Company of Henrico, Henrico County, Virginia, a 
proposed new bank, for membership in the Federal Reserve System. A 
copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 1. 

1/26/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Alabama 
Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to Bank of Sulligent, Sulligent, Alabama, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Fidelity 
Financial Corporation of Michigan, Birmingham, Michigan, to become 
a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of Fidelity 
Bank of Michigan, also of Birmingham, and authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval, 
on December 14, 1972, of the applications of First National City 
Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of the successors 
by merger to (1) The First Trust and Deposit Company of Oriskany 
Falls, Oriskany Falls, New York; and (2) Central Valley National Bank, 
Central Valley, New York. A copy of the order is attached under 
Item No. 4, along with copies of the concurring statement of Governor 
Robertson and the dissenting statement of Governor Brimmer. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Presidents 
of all Federal Reserve Banks relating to the utilization of space 
at new Federal Reserve buildings. At the meeting on December 21, 1972 
the Board had asked that the letter be modified for reconsideration. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Banks is attached as Item No. 5. 

1/26/73 
-4-
Pursuant to recommendations of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in memoranda of January 23, 1973, with which the 
System Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism and 
the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans 
concurred, the Board unanimously approved proposals to (1) establish 
a regional check processing center in Indianapolis, Indiana; (2) place 
a regional check processing center on the premises of the San Antonio 
Branch; and (3) expand the Denver regional check processing center. 
Copies of the letters sent to the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago, 
Dallas, and Kansas City are attached as Items 6-8. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation in a memorandum of January 24, 1973, the Board unan-
imously denied the request of Peoples Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida, 
for a hearing regarding its opposition to the application of North 
American Bank of Tampa, a proposed new bank, for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to Peoples Bank 
of Tampa is attached as Item No. 9. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Leasing activities. In a memorandum of January 17, 1973, 
the staff recommended that the Board publish an interpretation of 
Regulation K, Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing 
under the Federal Reserve Act, to permit Edge corporations and bank 

1/26/73 
-5-
holding companies to establish single purpose leasing companies 
engaged in international or foreign financing without specific 
Board approval. 
In order to minimize time delays three banking organizations 
had applied for permission to establish multiple special leasing 
subsidiaries. Continental Illinois Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 
had requested permission for its subsidiary, Continental Illinois 
(Delaware) Limited, to establish 12 leasing subsidiaries; First 
National City Corporation, New York, New York, had applied for 15 
corporations to be held by its subsidiary, Citilease, Inc., Delaware; 
and Marine Midland International Corporation, an Edge corporation 
subsidiary of Marine Midland Bank, New York, New York, had applied 
for permission for its subsidiary, International Marine Banking Co., 
London, England, to acquire 20 such leasing companies. 
Question was raised about the effect of the proposed inter-
pretation on the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program but 
assurance was given that the program would not be adversely affected. 
A consensus developed that the interpretation should include 
wording specifying that all assets and liabilities of special purpose 
leasing companies should be fully reflected in consolidated financial 
statements of their parent institutions filed with Federal bank regu-
latory authorities. 
The Board unanimously approved the interpretation in the 
form attached as Item No. 10. Copies of the letters informing Continental 

1/26/73 
-6-
Illinois Corporation, First National City Corporation, and Marine 
Midland International Corporation of the interpretation are attached 
as Items 11-13. 
First Amtenn Corporation. In a memorandum of January 16, 
19 73, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking 
Markets Section recommended approval of the application of First 
Amtenn Corporation, formerly First American National Corporation, 
Nashville, Tennessee, to acquire shares of Atlantic Discount Company, 
Inc., Jacksonville, Florida. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 14. 
First Oklahoma Bancorporation. In a memorandum of January 24, 
1973, the Legal Division referred to the application of The First 
National Holding Company, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, to form a holding 
company; to transfer a controlling interest in First National Bank 
and Trust Company of Oklahoma City,Oklahoma, to the new holding 
company; and then to merge The First National Holding Company with 
First Oklahoma Bancorporation, also of Oklahoma City. In response 
to the Board's notice of receipt of the application, the Comptroller 
of the Currency recommended denial. Under the statute, such a 
recommendation by a supervisor of the bank involved makes a hearing 
mandatory. Attached to the memorandum was a draft letter apprising 
the applicant of these facts. 

1/26/73 
-7-
Discussion brought out that the staff expected to meet 
with representatives of the bank holding company in the next few 
days to discuss the current application and also the instances 
of unsafe and unsound banking practices and impermissible nonbanking 
activities regarding which the Board had expressed concern when, on 
December 26, 1972, it discussed the status of First Oklahoma Bancorpo-
ration under the grandfather authority provisions of the Bank Holding 
Company Act. There was some likelihood that in the light of that 
conference the holding company might choose to withdraw the application. 
(Note: Subsequent conferences led to agreement by the Board's 
staff to hold the application in suspense until satisfactory resolution 
of the pending questions regarding the bank holding company's opera-
tions. Also, the Comptroller of the Currency modified his adverse 
recommendation in sufficient degree to remove the applicability of 
the statutory requirement for a hearing,) 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Reserve Bank employee compensation. At the meeting on 
June 26, 1972, the Board considered guidelines that had been endorsed 
by the Conference of Presidents for employee compensation programs 
at the Federal Reserve Banks. The Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans was requested to review a number 
of questions that were raised. A memorandum of January 23, 1973, 

1/26/73 
-8-
set forth the Committee's comments and recommendations regarding 
the questions. One recommendation contemplated that the Board's 
Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority would be amended to make 
clear that the Reserve Banks have the authority to administer their 
employees' salaries within the non-officer salary structures approved 
by the Board. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated acceptance in prin-
ciple of the Committee's recommendations except for the question whether 
approval by the Board should be required before an across-the-board 
salary adjustment was granted by a Federal Reserve Bank. The Committee 
had recommended that no action be taken that would limit the authority 
delegated to the Banks' management to administer salaries of its 
non-officer employees within the minimums and maximums of the salary 
ranges approved by the Board of Governors. However, the Committee 
suggested that the Reserve Banks be informed of the Board's concern 
that cost-of-living salary adjustments should be used with reasonable 
restraint and in full consideration of the economic policy goals and 
objectives of the System. Discussion developed agreement that before 
implementing an across-the-board salary adjustment, a Reserve Bank 
must notify the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans, which would review the proposal and make a recommen-
dation for Board consideration. 

1/26/73 
-9-
The Board endorsed the guidelines. A copy of the letter 
subsequently sent to the Federal Reserve Banks, along with a copy 
of the guidelines, is attached as Item No. 15. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that better machinery 
should be provided to enable a member of the Board to review Reserve 
Bank actions before they were implemented. Although the Board's 
Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority provided that a request for 
review might be made within five days of a Reserve Bank action, he 
regarded that provision as insufficient to insure that a member of 
the Board would be aware of actions taken. After discussion, it was 
agreed that Governors Brimmer and Sheehan were to work with staff 
to explore the question that had been raised. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

bG 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• a r T H E 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1/26/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A O O H C S 3 nrrtcM.i. C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
T L O A R O 
January 26, 1973 
Board of Directors 
The Peoples Bank and Trust 
Company of Henrico 
Henrico County, Virginia 
Gontl omen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of The Peoples Bank and Trust Company of 
Henrico, Henrico County, Virginia, for stock in the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond effective if and when the bank oiens for business 
under appropriate State authorization, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except: with the 
permission of the Board of Governor.; of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of its 
business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
. 2, The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation t:o the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibiJities. 
3. At the time of admission to mcmbers'up, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $1,200,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$800,000. 
In connection with the foregoing cone:'.ions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State bank: 
institutions in 

Board of Directors 
-2-
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
It is understood that any significant changes in the proposed 
management of the bank, prior to opening for business, will' be subject 
to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it: may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
le tter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
bu siness. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice of 
compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be trans-
mitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Arrangements will 
thereupon be made t:o accept payment for an appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock, to ac.ccpt the deposit of the required reserve 
balance, and to issue the appropriate amount cv: Federal Reserve Bank 
stock to the bank,. 
Ihe time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
"limited to six months from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension cf time. When the Eoard 
advised that r! I of the requirements have been complied with and 
i'Uaf the apprcr.ric.te amount: of Federal Reserve Bank stock h'to been 
ssuee t.«> t-K her.k, the 
••/ill forward to ;'he. bnek a .ormul certifi-
< '*to. cy: rremb"/.-.hip Ln i.h.A f'edcr?! Reserve Sy :'."em, 
'»no 'rfoa?"d o£ Governors sincercl-' hopes that you v/i'.l firui 
'neti.to.,-.ib.ivt in fl 'i 
ce ? b:'iciieia.1 { nd your oc1 at ions with the 
ser;n 
f'^ii plc'/'a-t, 
.be of cicers <-f the fedora J. res^r'e bank will V 
to 'ics>r,u y: i i:\ cstablishim* your rclati.on.~hj ^s witu the ^odeir.i 
Uo.,srvr. Syst ei. »,nd at; any time TO ('i&cvi w' th represent 1 ives of your 
< auk means J jr ma.<ir 
th re,, i'je^s of the System mo 31 useful to you. 
Very truly youvs, 
(Signed) Tynan I'mith 
nan Smith 
N 
ci. etary nf i Kc Board 
Enclosure 
, 
, 

Z88 
Item No. 2 
1/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ALABAMA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Alabama Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
fo* the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire the successor by merger to Bank of Sulligent, 
S uUigent, Alabama ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged 
has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of 
v°ting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition is 
Seated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
w i th § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
Spired and none have been timely received. The Board has considered 
application in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls three banks with deposits of $864.7 million 
presenting about 14 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
l n Alabama.V Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $8.6 million) would 
°uly increase minimally Applicant's share of deposits and would not 
Result in a significant increase in the concentration of banking 
Resources in Alabama. 
IT All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect bank 
"°lding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
through December 31, 1972. 

-3-
* * * » 
Bank is the second largest of three banks located in Lamar 
County (the relevant market) and controls about 38 per cent of the 
total deposits in that market. Applicant's closest banking subsidiary 
t o Bank is approximately 95 miles distant and there is no significant 
listing competition between it and any other banking subsidiaries 
Applicant and Bank. Nor is there a reasonable probability of 
substantial future competition developing between Applicant and Bank 
to Alabama's branching laws and the unattractiveness of Lamar 
County for de novo entry (measured by the comparative ratios of per 
capita income and population per banking office to Statewide averages). 
0 n the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that 
competitive considerations relating to the proposed acquisition are 
insistent with approval of the application. 
The financial resources of Applicant and its subsidiary 
banks are satisfactory with the exception of one subsidiary for which 
Applicant has agreed to provide additional capital. The managerial 
^sources and future prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks 
a r e satisfactory, as are the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of Bank. Considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served lend weight for approval of 
application since Applicant plans to introduce trust services 
and mortgage financing into Lamar County. Applicant also plans to 
e*pand Bank's lending and data processing activities. 
It is the Board's 
Judgment that the proposed transaction la lu t-h<* public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 

-3-
On the basis of the record the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
of this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective January 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
!7"~Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Daane. 

2 < » 1 
Item No. 3 
1/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIDELITY FINANCIAL CORPORATION OF MICHIGAN 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Fidelity Financial Corporation of Michigan, Birmingham, Michigan, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
through acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares of Fidelity Bank of 
Michigan, Birmingham, Michigan ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
not*e has been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
i n light of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, a newly organized corporation, was formed by Bank's 
Present management for the purposes of becoming a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of Bank. Upon acquisition of Bank ($37.1 million 
o f deposits), Applicant would control less than .2 per cent of deposits 
o f commercial banks in Michigan and .3 per cent of such deposits in the 
Detroit metropolitan area (which approximates Bank's relevant market). (All 
inking data are as of June 30, 1972.) As the proposed transaction repre-
sents the transfer of shares of Bank by individual shareholders to a holding 
c°mpany owned by the same shareholders, the proposed transaction is essentially 
a corporate reorganization. Consummation of the proposal herein would 
Either alter existing banking competition nor significantly affect potential 
competition and would not result in an increase in the concentration of 
tanking resources in any relevant area. 

o q o 
-2-
Bank operates three offices in Birmingham, Michigan, a 
suburban community situated between Pontiac and Detroit, Michigan. Bank 
was chartered in 1971 and immediately thereafter assumed the deposit 
liabilities of another bank that had been placed in receivership by State 
banking 
authorities. Actions taken by Bank's management (including in-
action of a significant amount of capital and conservative structuring 
o f Bank's loan and investment portfolios) appear to have enabled Bank to 
become an effective competitor in the Birmingham area. Applicant's 
financial condition and future prospects are dependent on those of Bank. 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of Bank are 
generally satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. 
Although it appears that consummation of the proposed transaction will have 
n° immediate effect on the convenience and needs of the residents in Bank's 
Market, to the extent the holding company vehicle permits Applicant to 
offer expanded and wider-ranging financial services, considerations rela-
ting to the convenience and needs factors are regarded as consistent with 
aPproval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the applica-
tion should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
Masons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
0 r (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 

-3-
2<J3 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^tchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor 

Item No. 4 
1/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
First National City Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
Qualifying shares) of both the successor by merger to The First Trust and 
DePosit Company of Oriskany Falls, Oriskany Falls, New York ("Oriskany 
fiank") and the successor by merger to the Central Valley National Bank, 
Central Valley, New York ("Central Valley Bank"). The respective banks 
Into which each Bank is to be merged have no significance except as a 
means to acquire all the shares of the respective Banks. Accordingly, 
proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organizations is 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of shares of each Bank. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in New York in 
tefms of domestic deposits, controls five subsidiary banks with aggregate 
deposits of approximately $13.5 billion, representing 14.0 per cent of 

* * * » 
-3-
1/ „ 
, 
the total deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
Consummation ot 
the proposed transaction would neither significantly increase Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State nor result in a significant increase in the 
concentration of banking resources in New York. 
Oriskany Bank, with deposits of $4.8 million, is located in the 
Utica-Rome banking market where it is the third smallest of 11 banks, 
controlling less than 1 per cent of deposits in commercial banks in that 
market. Applicant's closest operating subsidiary bank is located about 
120 miles from Bank and there is no significant existing or potential 
competition between Bank and that bank or any other of Applicant's sub-
sidiaries. Applicant's acquisition of Bank could have a procompetitive 
effect since Bank, with Applicant's support, should compete more aggresively 
vith the two largest banks in the Utica-Rome market, which control appro-
ximately 84 per cent of deposits in that market. 
Central Valley Bank, with deposits of $15.1 million, is located 
the Middletown banking market where it is the twelfth largest of 15 banks, 
controlling 3.5 per cent of deposits in commercial banks in that market. 
APPlicant's closest operating subsidiary banking office is the Peekskill 
branch of First National City Bank, located about 16 miles from Bank. 
B m k 
^ d the Peekskill branch are separated by a toll bridge over the Hudson 
River and the West Point Military Reservation. There is no significant 
data relating to Applicant and Central Valley Bank 
are as of June 30, 1972. Deposit and market data relating to Oriskany Bank 
are as of December 31, 1971, and June 30, 1971, respectively. All data is 
adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions through 
December 31, 1972. 

296 
-3-
competition between Bank and Citibank's Peekskill office and, due to the 
geographical separation of Bank and that office, it is unlikely that sig-
nificant competition would develop in the future. Applicant's acquisition 
of 
Bank could have a procompetitive effect since Bank, with Applicant s 
support, should compete more aggressively with the five largest banks 
which control approximately 57 per cent of the deposits in that market. 
Additionally, approval of this application would remove home office protec-
tion from the town of Woodbury. On the basis of the record, the Board 
concludes that consummation of the proposed transactions would not eliminate 
significant existing or potential competition between either Oriskany 
Bank or Central Valley Bank and any other existing or proposed subsidiary 
Applicant. Further, consummation of the proposals would not have any 
adverse effect on competing banks in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant, its existing subsidiary banks, Oriskany and Central Valley Bank 
are generally satisfactory and consistent with approval. It appears that 
the banking needs of the communities to be served are being adequately met 
at present. However, Applicant proposes to provide new services at each 
Bank, such as trust, factoring, and travelers check services. Convenience 
and needs considerations are, therefore, consistent with and lend some weight 
toward approval of the applications. It is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed acquisitions would be in the public interest and that the appli-
cations should be approved. 

-5-
2 9 7 
Applicant owns several nonbanking companies that were formed or 
acquired prior to December 31, 1970. These companies are engaged in acti-
vities such as mortgage banking, leasing, factoring, management consulting, 
community development projects, and computer processing of financial informa-
tion. In making its determination herein, the Board has relied upon a finding 
that the combination of two additional subsidiary banks with Applicant's 
existing nonbanking subsidiaries is unlikely to have an adverse effect upon 
the public interest at the present time. However, Applicant's banking and 
nonbanking activities remain subject to Board review and the Board retains 
the authority to require Applicant to modify or terminate its nonbanking 
activities or holdings if the Board at any time determines that the combina-
tion of Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities is likely to have 
adverse effects on the public interest. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Mew York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Daane, and Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governor Brimmer. Absent 
and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

298 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
The majority has approved the subject applications on the principle 
fchat the banks proposed to be acquired do not "interface" with Applicant's 
nonbank activities so as to cause or aggravate an undue concentration of 
resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound 
banking practices. I concur in the approval only because (1) I feel bound 
by 
the Board's policy with respect to the treatment to be accorded a pro-
Posed acquisition by a holding company that has certain "grandfather" bene-
fits with respect to the continuation of nonbank activities, and (2) the 
subject applications fall within the standards for approval under said policy 
the Board. However, I deem it appropriate to voice my concern and disagree 
^ent with this policy. In my judgment, the Board's review should not be 
limited to the effect of the proposed acquisitions upon Registrant's activi-
ties. I believe that the Board has the authority and the responsibility to 
teview the entire operations of an applicant and to determine whether or not 
there is already an undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair 
competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices; and, in 
the event any of these unfavorable conditions is found by the Board to exist, 
the Board should deny approval of the proposed acquisition of the bank or 
condition approval upon a modification of activities directed towards elimi-
nating an undue concentration of resources (or other evil designated in the 
Act) within an appropriate time schedule. 
January 26, 1973 

O U Q 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
This application involves the proposed acquisition of two 
additional banks by a bank holding company having certain "grandfather" 
Privileges. The 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, which 
subjected Applicant to Board regulation, provided certain "grandfather" 
Privileges to one-bank holding companies that acquired nonbanking com-
panies between June 30, 1968, and December 31, 1970. 
I have previously stated my belief that, before a one-bank 
holding company having "grandfathered" activities or interests is allowed 
by the Board to become a multi-bank holding company, the Board should 
decide explicitly whether the continued combination of the one-bank 
holding company's existing bank and any of its "grandfathered" nonbanking 
1/ 
activities or interests is consistent with the purposes of the Act. 
These same fundamental considerations should be applied each time a bank 
holding company having "grandfathered" activities or interests applies for 
the Board's approval of a proposed acquisition. In the present applica-
tions, a majority of the Board considered only whether the combination of 
two additional subsidiary banks with Applicant's existing nonbanking sub-
sidiaries would have an adverse effect upon the public interest at this 
time. I disagree with the policy applied by the majority. 
1/ DissenTing Statement of Governor Brimmer in the matter of the 
application of First National City Corporation to acquire the successor 
by merger to The National Exchange Bank of Cast 1eton-on-IIudson (1972 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 724-725). 

* * * » 
-3-
The serious limitations of such a policy are well illustrated 
by the present case. Prior to 1971, Applicant made several nonbanking 
acquisitions. These included two companies nationally prominent in their 
fields: (1) Advance Mortgage Corporation, Southfield, Michigan, the 
fourth largest mortgage banking company in the country (with a mortgage 
servicing portfolio of approximately $1.5 billion), and (2) Cresap, McCormick 
& Paget, Inc., a leading international general management consulting firm 
2/ 
(with gross billing of approximately $10 million). 
(It should be noted 
that the Board has determined that general management consulting is not a 
Permissible activity for bank holding companies (1972 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 674-677)). 
I agree that the combination of the activities of the small 
community-oriented banks being acquired with the activities of nonbank-
ing companies primarily competing in national or international markets 
is not likely to result in significant adverse effects from the point of 
view of the public interest. However, Applicant and its lead subsidiary 
bank are major competitors in both national and international markets. 
Applicant controls five subsidiary banks with aggregate domestic deposits 
of $13.5 billion; it is the largest banking organization in New York and 
I T Prior to 1971, Applicant also acquired (1) Air Market Express, Ltd., 
Los Angeles, California, a company engaged in freight deconsolidation and 
reforwarding; (2) 155 East 52nd Street, Inc., New York, New York, a com-
pany that owns a residential apartment building; and (3) Ginelli Develop-
ment Corporation, New York, New York, a company that owns several tracts 
of real estate. The Board has not yet determined whether the specific 
activities engaged in by these companies are permissible for bank holding 
Companies. However, some of these activities may be impermissible (see 
1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 423-429). 

-3-
301 
the second largest banking organization in the nation. Consequently, 
serious adverse competitive effects may well arise from the continued 
combination of Applicant's existing banking and nonbanking businesses. 
In light of this possibility, permitting Applicant to add even two small 
banks to its already far-flung financial network—without assessing 
explicitly all of its nonbanking activities—may not be in the public 
interest. 
By making its approval of the proposed acquisitions dependent 
upon the absence of an adverse interface between the activities of the 
large nonbanking companies owned by Applicant and the activities of the 
small banks being acquired, the Board fails to consider the most funda-
mental questions posed by these applications: 
(1) Is early termination 
°f Applicant's combined ownership of its existing banking and nonbanking 
interests necessary to prevent an undue concentration of resources, 
decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking 
Practices? 
(2) Specifically, did Applicant's acquisition of Advance 
Mortgage Corporation have an adverse effect upon existing or potential 
competition in mortgage banking in various sections of this country? 
(3) In the competition to service corporate borrowers, does Applicant's 
ownership of Cresap, McCormick & Paget provide it with a significant 
and unwarranted competitive advantage over other multi-bank holding 
companies that are prohibited from engaging in management consulting 
activities? If, upon investigation, the Board would conclude that these 
questions should be answered in the affirmative, I believe it is not 

-4-
powerless Co deal i^ith the situation in the context of the applications 
being approved today—as would seem to be implied by the policy followed 
by the majority. 
Prior to the 1970 Amendments to the Act, a one-bank holding 
company seeking to expand as a multi-bank holding company was required to 
conform its activities to those permissible for other multi-bank holding 
companies. The 1970 Amendments provided 10-year "grandfather" privileges 
to one-bank holding companies, thereby allowing such companies to continue 
their nonbanking businesses. However, I cannot believe Congress intended 
such privileges to continue automatically after a "grandfathered" one-bank 
holding company becomes a multi-bank holding company. A contrary conclu-
sion would provide a multi-bank holding company enjoying "grandfather" 
Privileges with potentially significant competitive advantages over other 
multi-bank holding companies. Admittedly, the statute and its legislative 
history may not clearly specify what effect the acquisition of an additional 
bank by any such one-bank holding company should have upon the continuation 
of its 10-year "grandfather" privileges. However, I believe that, in the 
light of its authority to issue such orders as may be necessary to enable 
it to administer and carry out the purposes of the Act, the Board has the 
obligation to evaluate the possible adverse competitive effects which 
might arise from the continued combination of Applicant's existing banking 
and nonbanking businesses before approving applications which allow Appli-
cant to expand as a multi-bank holding company. If, upon investigation, 
the Board should conclude that the continued combination of such businesses 

303 
-5-
is inconsistent with the purposes of the Act, the Board should condition 
its approval of such applications upon the modification or early termination 
of the nonbanking activities which led the Board to reach such a conclusion. 
Because of the concerns expressed above, I would not approve 
these applications. 
January 26, 1973 

14 
V * 
fm\ 
B O A R D D F G • V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 14 
1/26/73 
A D D R E S S 
Q T F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P Q N D ^ N C T 
January 26, 1973 
Review of recent building projects has indicated that actual 
space allotments have exceeded the more than generous program require-
ments—in seme cases by wide margins — for offices and other executive 
areas. The Board feels strongly that Federal Reserve space should be 
utilized to the maximum extent possible and wishes to convey its 
concern on the uneconomic use of space allocations. 
It is generally agreed among the leading space planners that 
today's private office should be modest in size with emphasis placed 
on decorative treatment rather than physical size. The area allocated 
to an office should be determined by the needs of the individual and 
Ofc Jargc- enough to encourage efficient operation; however, extravagance 
in office sizes should be avoided, particularly at a time when people 
are sensitive to the need for further commitment of public funds arid 
in view of today's high construction costs* 
The Board believes that all new building projects in the plan-
ning stages that have yet to equip offices should reevaluate space 
allocated to private offices and special executive areas such as board 
rcom, Chairman's o££ice, conference room, directors' lounges, reception 
area, officers' and other private dining facilities, etc. 
For those F.eserve Banks currently planning new construction, 
the Board would appreciate being advised of the Bank's reevaluated 
space allotments relative to all private office sices, and special 
purpose executive areas * 
Very truly yours, 
f Tyuc.n Smith 
Secretary 
TO THE FR3STEtOTo OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANT.5 

a f ' 5 
Item No. 6 
1/26/73 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
o r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
M I I I I ! 
m 
A O D 9 E 3 S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 26, 1973 
Mr. Robert P. Mayo, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Dear Mr. Mayo: 
The Board approves the proposal to establish an RCPC in 
leased facilities in Indianapolis, Indiana, and an increase in 
annual operating expenses of approximately $2,640,000 and start-up 
costs rot- to evceed $500,000. It is understood that the offsetting 
savings of nearly $700,000 in the Chicago office will be reemployed 
as necessary to exoraxl the Chicago RCPC and to provide tor normal 
growth expected this year of approximately 300,000 items. 
The Board further understands that in approving the staff 
increases contained in your 1973 budget, that certain positions 
anticipated for the Indianapolis office are included, as well as 
certain of the oositions that will be freed in Chicago as the 
Indianapolis RCPC becomes fully implemented. Specifically, the 
bisect requests 25 positions for training for Indianapolis, 10 
positions for extension of the Chicago RCPC, and 15 positions for 
exported volume increases. 
Deducting these positions, the Board 
approves a ceiling increase above the budgeted number of 142 
posi t i.ens -
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
1 

•f^LRc^'' 
B O A R D •!" G O V E R N O R S 
1/26/73* ? 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L RESERVE! S Y S T E M 
'A'ASKI N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20531 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R H E S P D N D E N C E 
T U 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 26, 1973 
Mr. Philip E. Co.ldwell, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
Dea r Mr. Coldw ell: 
The Board approves the proposal by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas to establish 
a Regional Check Processing Center on the 
premises of che San Antonio Branch. 
An additional $492,182 in annual 
operating expenses and 39 positions above the 
employment ceiling approved in the 1973 bud-
get are also approved. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

32 
b o a r d o f g o v e r n o r s 
I t e m No_ 
OF T H E 
1/26/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
m-
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2CS>51 
A D D R E S S 
Q M C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
•r^iRESVv 
January 26 , 19 73 
Mr. George. H. Clay, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 
64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
The Board of Governors approves the 
proposal to expand the Denver RCPC territory 
with an accompanying increase in annual ex-
penditures of $43,957, and an increase of two 
positions in the present employment ceiling. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 9 
1/26/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 26, 1973 
Mr. Wm. Kendall Baker 
Chairman of the Board 
Peoples Bank of Tampa 
4705 North Armenia Avenue 
Tampa, Florida 
33603 
Dear Mr. Baker: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 19, 1973 
to Chairman Burns, regarding an application now pending before 
the Board by North American Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida, for 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Your letter states: 
"I would like at this time to request a hearing 
before the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System regarding our opposition to the proposed North 
American Bank of Tampa, prior to any approval by the 
Federal Reserve." 
The Board has considered your requesr and, while it 
declines uo grant a hearing, you and other representatives of 
your bank are most welcome to meet with Board staff in Washington 
to present whatever evidence you believe to be relevant to the 
app1ica t ion. 
The Board's staff will be in contact with you through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta to arrange such a meeting if 
you so desire. You may rest assured that Board action in this 
matter will be taken only after due consideration of all relevant 
facts. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

TITLE 12—BANKS AM) BANKING 
CHAPTER 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. K] 
PART 211—'CORPORATIONS ENGAGED IN FOREIGN 
BANKING AND FINANCING UN DEI, THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE ACT 
S-22.2 6-
Item No. 10 
1/26/73 
§ 211„108 
Special purpose leasing corporation^ 
(a) A question has been raised with the Board as to 
whether a corporation or&snisred under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (an "Edge corporation") that is directly or indirectly 
engaged .In the general business of leasing personal property arid 
ecu^pruout i.a required under paragraph 8 of section 23(a) and section 
9..V t8(!>) of this pari: (Regulation IC) to obtain U u Board?c prior 
rpp 
for 'jm-eatiaents in specie! purpose leaning corporation? that 
are vermo-d as vehic.ias for specific leasing transactions (or the 
fur.ei-.i-»:wil 
thereof) with a single customerrather than 
to 
in the general krs.v'joss of leasing,, In the Board's opinion, 
au-.lv special purpose coi po,-ations represent credit facilities provided 
by the par eat ..'io^.oiai. insuitucion, either alone or in participation 
vich < n . J . au/! fchotCd I.e. r ^ r d e d as activities of the parent 
financial institution c.<uC not as ir.vfistiiifcrvcs requiring Board approval 
(h) V.t is common practice for certain types of lease 
to he structured in such a v:ay that legal title to the 
persons'. property or equlpoient rests In a separately Incorporated 
erit-;U:yv ex. for aymple, in the leasing c.f commercial aircraft or 

vessels. Such a corporation, herein referred to as a "special 
purpose corporation," may be used to reduce the potential exposure 
of the parent financial institution to tort liability arising in 
connection with the operation of an aircraft or vessel, to comply 
with the laws of the various countries relating to registration cf. 
aircraft or vessels or perfecting liens on equipment, or to minimize 
taxes upon rental payments received under the lease„ 
(c) The distinguishing feature of special purpose 
corporations is thai: they aic formed for the purpose of engaging in 
a particular transaction involving the financing of. one or more it ems 
of: personal property or. equipment and a single customer, rather tivm 
tt general business* 
In the Board's judgment, no regulatory purpose 
^eoc).;;': /> v?ir,h prr.-"/.:^.vb t of section 
and sactiou /.!'« ,8(b) of 
Hfc&ul&tion X voulti to served by having the Heard set een in .vdvanee 
each transaction entered into in this manner„ 
(d) "?••!(. ftoaru uuoomcands that, in most 
these 
npacAal purpose corporations arc astr.blisha'l under ru arrangement 
M\wzr.by the creditors v/ho have made loens to such corporations do 
no'-, have r.< course to the parent, E ^ e corporation, or its subsidiary 
engaged in (he general busine3a of leasing or financing, for the 
1'ope.ymtM.S of such loans* In those iiif.tanr.es where the financing 
arrangement contemplates that creditors oif the special purpose 
corporation shall have recourse to the parent Edge corporation or 
its leasvug or financing rubcidiary, borrowings by the special 

0 
«... 
«3<* 
purpose leasing corporation of the type described in section 211.4 
of Regulation K shall be regarded as if the borrowings were those 
of the guarantor and shall not cause the borrowings of the latter 
to exceed the amount previously approved by the Board. All assets 
and liabilities of special purpose corporations shall be fully 
reflected in consolidated financial statements of their parent 
institutions) filed with federal bauk regulatory authorities, 
(e) The parent lidge corporation shall furnish the Board 
v/ith nueii information, regarding the activities of each special pur-
pose corporation as it may require from time to time and maintain 
full information on such subsidiaries at its head office* By 
reference this interpretation also applies to investments made 
directly or indirectly by br.ftlc holding companies in special purpose 
corporal.ions of the type described above which do no business in 
the Daited Stages exeevt as may be incidental to their international 
oi: foreijp. businesst 
[IuterpL'ets and rq plies 12 l\.S„C„ 615.] 
By Older of the Board of Governors, January 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
[SHAL] 
Secretary oi: the Board 

312 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
o f THE 
item No. 11 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1/26/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
N M C I A L 
C O R R E B P D N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
R O A R C 
January 31, 1973 
Continental Illinois Corporation 
231 South La Salle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 
60693 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter of 
October 23, 1972, requesting permission to establish 
12 corporations which would engage in a single full-
payout leasing transaction (or the functional equiv-
alent thereof). Enclosed is an interpretation setting 
forth the Board's policy with respect to such special-
purpose corporations. 
V ery truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

llllj 
B O A R D OF 
G G V E R N Q R S 
D F THE 
Item No. 12 
r_r_r^r_I_1 A , n r . p r n w r 
r , v r ? T r u 
1/26/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
rs/ 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
i P i i l W l : 
- 
-
• ^ V V ' U . V ' I I / C , 
• 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
* ' > D R E S S 
D F N C I A L 
C O R P C S P O N O E N C E 
January 31, 1973 
First National City Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter of 
December 5, 1972, requesting permission to establish 
15 corporations which would engage in a single full-
payout leasing transaction (or the functional equiv-
alent thereof). Enclosed is on interpretation setting 
forth the Board's policy with respect to such single-
pur pose corporations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

m 
m 
1 
l i 
w ; 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
I t £ m 
OFTKE 
1/26/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
> ^ N « E S S 
O T R L C I A L 
C U R R E S F O N O E 
N C E 
r a 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 31, 1973 
Marine Midland International Corporation 
120 Broadway 
New York, New York 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter of 
October 11. 1972, requesting permission to establish 
indirectly 20 corporations which would engage in a 
single full-payout leasing transaction (or the 
functional equivalent thereof). Enclosed is an inter-
pretation setting forth the Board's policy with respect-
to such special-purpose corporations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

315 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST AMTENN CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Atlantic Discount Company, Inc 
Item No. 14 
1/26/73 
First Amtenn Corporation, formerly known as First American 
National Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, a bank holding company within 
the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the Board's 
approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of Atlantic Discount 
Company, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a company that engages in the activities 
of a finance company and acts as an agent with respect to sales of credit 
life and disability insurance on borrowers in connection with its loans, and 
casualty insurance on property securing such loans. Such activities have 
been determined by the Board to be closely related to the business of banking 
(12 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (37 Federal Register 25966). The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered all comments received in 
the light of the public interest factors set forth in section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)). 
Applicant controls three banks in Tennessee with aggregate deposits 
of $736.7 million, comprising 8.1 per cent of the State's total commercial 
bank deposits."7 Atlantic Discount Company, Inc., ("Atlantic") is a consumer 
and commercial finance company operating almost entirely in Florida and South 
Georgia, with total assets of $26.5 million. Applicant's lead bank, First 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1972. 

-3-
* * * » 
American National Bank, Nashville, Tennessee (with deposits of $685 million), 
has $0.2 million of outstanding loans to individuals in areas served by 
Atlantic, most of these loans, however, were made in Nashville before the 
borrowers migrated to Florida. In addition, the lead bank has $0.1 million 
of commercial loans derived from Atlantic's service areas. Therefore, it 
appears that consummation of the proposal would not eliminate any significant 
competition between Applicant and Atlantic. No adverse competitive effects 
would appear to result from removal of Applicant or Atlantic as a potential 
competitor of the other because neither is considered a likely de novo entrant 
into the other's markets, and there are several other potential competitors 
in the product and geographic markets that both serve. 
Applicant's advantage over Atlantic in issuing commercial paper and 
longer-term debentures may increase resources available to Atlantic, thereby 
permitting expansion of Atlantic's loan volume and geographic scope of 
operations. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This determination is subject 
to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the 
Board's authority to require such modification or termination of the activities 
of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 

317 
-3-
to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the 
Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2/ Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

Item No. 15 
1/26/73 
3 1 8 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
DF THE 
S-2233 
' 
FEDERAL 
R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
• 
;.' • . . . . 
. : : 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
I"'1' Iff*" f ' 
,V> • 
J | ! } ; • 
-/A . 
AOtlREBB UTKICIAl. 
C O f R E S P O N O E N C t 
• V. ' 
TO THC GUARD 
April 9 j 1973 
The Board of Covernorr has endorsed the attached Guidelines 
for I".tr.ploye.e Compensation Programs at the Federal Reserve Banks i.n the 
forra approved by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting held on 
March 20. 1972, In consider in;-; these Guide 11 vies, it v?as found that 
authority had not been properly delegated under Section 11 (k) of the 
Federal reserve Act to the Banks to administer the salaries of their 
non-official employees» 
Action has been initiated to amend Section 
265.2(f) of the Beard's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority to 
include in the cell rations to the Reserve Banks authority to adminis-
ter salaries of their employees within the minirnums and maximums of 
the non-official salary structures approved by the Board of Governors. 
This, of course, raises the ancillary task of providing a review pro-
cedure under Sect ion 
3 oi the 
legation of Authori ty» 
Uith respect to Section I) 1 (Salary Admi riistration) of the 
Guidelines and the statement contained therein that "salary adjust-
ments it: a v be granted to employ a or. by the method deemed most effective 
. . 
the Board is confident that the ''auks will use "across-the-
board" salary adjustments with reasonable restraint and in full 
consideration of the economic policy goals and objectives of the 
federal Reserve System, However, until the Rules Regarding Delegation 
of Authority have been anend al, the Board requests that each Bank 
contemplating an across- tha-board salary ad jus tinent for its employees 
so advise the Board of Governors at least 10 days prior to the proposed 
effective date of such adjustment. Such advice should include the 
percentage of increase to be gi\a.-n and the basis for its determination, 
the number of employees whose salaries would be adjusted, the estimated 
manual cost, and the percentage of such cost to current salary liability, 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
Tynan S-villi 
/ 
Secretsrv 
t .. . . 
•'» c achj'.eat 
T0 the presidents op all federal reserve banks 
Tin:: V IGF. PRESIDE ITS Ih GliAaGE OF f.FAUCi'KS 

319 
S-2233~a 
GUIDELINES FOR EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION PROGRAMS 
AT THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANK:; 
j w j c v 
Effective compensation programs, which allow for fbc recruit-
ment , retention ?<tici motivation of competent i»taf J1 personnel, ate 
considered essential to the ful.fillraent of the responsibilities of 
"Federal Reserve Banks. Development of compensation programs, including 
job evaluation, market comparisons and competitive salary structures 
are the responsibilities of each Federal Reserve Bank with the minimum 
an-:! muxlmr.m salary for each, job grade subject to approval by the Board 
of Governors. VMM.in this framework, each Reserve Bank has responsibil-
ity ior e.c ministaring saLertas equitably. The. Division of Pe?. somiol 
Administration of the Board of Governors has responsibility for review-
ing periodically each Reserve Bank's salary compensation program. The 
foil ox* J r."; gener.'.l guidelines are. offered to assist (he Reserve Banks 
iu the fulfillment of these objectives* 
A, 
lot. v.va 1 uai: ion 
Each Federal Reserve Bank is responsible for maintaining a job 
evaluation plan trader will eh each job is described in writing 
and evaluated into a salary grade which reflects, as accurately 
as possible, the relative difficulty and responsibility associated 
with that iob. 

Job evaluation should be an orderly, systematic and 
professionally acceptable process which provides a 
written record of the judgments in evaluating each 
factor of the job. 
Each Reserve Bank should pursue a regular program under 
which the duties for all jobs will be periodically 
re-examined by the bank's job evaluation staff to insure-
that job descriptions and the evaluation reflect the 
current duties of each job. 
Job evaluation systems should avoid excessive prolifera-
tion of job titles and descriptions among essentially 
similar jobs, 
The Reserve K ^ U s should consider evaluating senior non-
official jobs by different methods from those used for 
the lower"level jobs to permit recognition of the broader 
scope of qualifications and responsibilities associated 
v i t h th e s e j ob s. 
Job evaluation plans designed for clerical and adminis-
trative jobs may not realistically evaluate building trade 
and related jobs. Different procedures for evaluating job 
in these areas should be considered whore the labor market 
so warrants. 
Regular reviews should be conducted of the application of 
job evaluation procedures between and/or among a Bank and 

* * * » 
-3-
its branches to Insure that such procedures reflcct 
similarities and differences in jobs, 
B. 
Sa 1 arv Stru.cJjiires 
1, 
Each Reserve Bank should provide a 16«snlary-grado. 
structure, as an appropriate framework for non-official 
salary administration. A Grade 16 penthouse is available 
to each Bank, subject to approval by the Board of Governors. 
In addition, Banks may have a separate salary structure for 
building trades and related jobs. 
2, 
The use of wider spreads in the middle and upper grades 
recognises the fact that creator variations in performance 
are poaribla in those job?: which require more individual 
judgment: and wk-re greater responsibility is assigned, 
The spread within the salary grades should be as follows: 
ae 
Grades 1 through 6 should have maximums 35 per cent 
above the winInums of each grade. 
b. 
Grades 7 through 11 should have maximums 40 per cent 
above the uvi.uimums of each grade, 
c.« 
Grades 12 through 16 should have maximums 50 per cent: 
above the minimums of each grade, 
3, 
The payment of any salary below the minimum in excess of 
3 months or above the maximum in excess of 6 months of the 
currant salary structure is subject to Board approval. 

3* » ' * 
-4- 
• 
C. 
Solary Surveys arid Structure Changes 
The salary structure of each Reserve Bank should be maintained at 
a level competitive with the local salary market as measured by 
regular surveys cf progressive employers. Standards for the 
conduct of those surveys and for the presentation of salary 
structure proposals to the Board of Governor a will be prepared 
for consideration by the Conference of Presidents by the Sub-
committee on Personnel in consultation with the Division, of 
Personnel Administration of the Board of Governors, 
1, 
The Reserve Banks should participate, when possible, in 
broadly based community salary surveys and should if 
n&ccsoavy provide staff and other encouragement toward 
t he 
tnbl ashta-rat and inprovenent of sv>eh aurveys. 
The various government agencies in the conu~iun.it: y ahoulc 
t.c Included in salary surveys to the extent tli.it they 
meet survey requirements ?-uch as firm sine and influence 
on the market, 
3, 
Full-scale salary surveys should he made at least annually, 
Hovevt.f", when circumstances warrant, they may be less 
frequ'.nt and other salary data may be presented in support 
of structure changes between salary survey dates, 
4„ 
Supplr. :\."atal payments if available in cash, such as bonuses 
and profit sharing, etc,, and given regularly should be regard-
ed as pert of basic compensation for the purpose of the survey. 

D„ 
Salary A^lpJrHiiillKill~ 
The responsibility and authority for determining all salary 
changes within the salary structures approved by the Board 
of Governors rests with the management of each Federal Reserve 
Bank. Salary adjustments may he granted to employees by the 
method deemed most effective either across the board or on 
an individual basis. 
2. 
Each Bank should have a positive program of informing employees 
about jab evaluation and salary administration programs with 
the objective of making all employees aware of the basis for 
their compensation. 
Revised 
March 20, 19-72 
