MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 30, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 30, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
Burns, Chairman 
Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Brimmer 
Sheehan 
Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Feldberg of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
System Committee on Cost. On January 18, 1973, during its 
consideration of the Federal Reserve Bank budgets for the first half 
of 1973, the Board discussed the formation of a System committee to 
review System operations and recommend changes that would improve cost 
effectiveness and productivity within the System. At that meeting there 
had been support for the development of a System committee to manage such 
an effort; however, the composition of the committee was not decided upon. 
In a memorandum dated January 29, 1973, the Committee on Organi-
zation, Compensation, and Building Plans recommended the establishment 
of a System Steering Committee on Cost Effectiveness. This committee's 
PRESENT: Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 

1/30/73 
-2-
first undertaking would be a review of the benefits and costs of signi-
ficant System activities, with the objective of recommending changes that 
would improve their cost effectiveness. It was recommended that the 
committee be composed initially of three Board members, the twelve Reserve 
Bank Presidents, and three directors of the Reserve Banks with business 
backgrounds. 
Initial discussion focused on the proposed composition of the 
committee. Several Board members expressed the view that a committee of 
the size proposed might be too large to accomplish effectively the required 
objectives. It was noted, however, that the committee as proposed today 
would appoint an executive committee, which would be the primary working 
group charged with implementing objectives. There was a strong belief 
that, since the project should have the full support and participation of 
the Reserve Bank Presidents, the twelve Bank Presidents should participate 
in the initial stages of the primary committee. 
Discussion developed general agreement that the Board's representa-
tives on the committee should be the three members of the Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans. There was also agreement 
that the Chairman of the Committee on Organization, who was presently 
Governor Sheehan, should act as chairman of the new committee and help to 
insure that effective leadership was maintained. However, it was believed 
that while the Board should monitor the progress of the committee, the 
Board should avoid indications that it desired to become involved in the 
operations aspects of the individual Reserve Banks. 

1/30/73 
-3-
While there was general agreement that all areas of System 
operations should be reviewed in connection with this program, the Board 
was concerned with maintaining the progress of the regional check processing 
center project and of the efforts currently under way to improve security 
within the System. In that light it was noted that representatives of 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations were prepared to visit 
the Reserve Banks to review the security programs. 
After further discusssion the Board unanimously approved in prin-
ciple the formation of a committee along the lines discussed today, to 
be called the System Committee on Cost. It was understood that a telegram 
would be sent to the Reserve Bank Presidents informing them of the Board's 
decision, and that at the earliest practicable date the Committee on Orga-
nization, Compensation, and Building Plans would arrange a meeting with 
the Reserve Bank Presidents to begin development of the committee. The 
telegram would also report that the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Oper-
ations had been directed to undertake a review of the security programs 
of the Banks to identify appropriate savings. A copy of the telegram 
sent to the Reserve Bank Presidents is attached as Item No. 1. 
At this point the following members of the staff entered the 
meeting: 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr, Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 

1/30/73 
-4-
Messrs. Chase and Gramley, Associate Directors, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr, Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of Interna-
tional Finance 
Messrs. Gemmill and Norwood, Advisers, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl and Miss Hart, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Supporting staff of the several Divisions 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applications 
of First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
to acquire shares of (1) Arnotts First City Building Society, Victoria, 
Australia; and (2) Citicard S.A. Comercial, Financiera y de Servicios, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina. Copies of the letters sent to the applicant are 
attached as Items 2 and 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
International arbitrage. In a memorandum dated January 26, 1973, 
the staff discussed the request of Western American Bank (Europe) Limited, 
London, England, for a ruling that it may legally participate with a 
United States brokerage firm in the operation of an international arbitrage 
joint account as an incident to its dealings in securities outside the 
United States. Western American was a London-based consortium bank; 
three U.S. banks owned a majority of its shares either directly or 
through an Edge corporation subsidiary. The proposed international 
arbitrage would involve the purchase or sale of listed U.S. securities on 
the New York Stock Exchange by a U.S. member firm for the joint account of 

1/30/73 
-5-
Western American and the member firm, reversing the sale or purchase 
of the same securities earlier on the same day by Western American in 
Europe for the joint account. The staff recommended issuance of an 
interpretation of Regulation K, Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking 
and Financing under the Federal Reserve Act, that would rule favorably 
on the question that had been raised. A draft was attached. 
During discussion several reservations were expressed regarding 
the proposed arbitrage operation. U.S. banks and their affiliates were 
not permitted to engage in the business of selling or distributing secu-
rities in the U.S., and the view was expressed that since Western American 
was an affiliate of U.S. banks, it should not be granted the privilege. 
After further discussion the matter was deferred pending additional 
exploration by the staff. 
Grandfather rights; Swiss-Israel. On November 30, 1972, the 
Board deferred for further consideration the question whether termination 
should be required of the indefinitely grandfathered activities of Swiss-
Israel Trade Bank, Geneva. Switzerland. Staff recommended that the 
grandfather rights not be terminated. A draft determination in that 
form was attached to a memorandum dated January 26, 1973, from the Legal 
Division. 
During discussion concern was expressed regarding the condition 
of American Bank & Trust Company, New York, New York, a subsidiary of 
Swiss-Israel. It was noted that American Bank had been in unsatisfactory 

1/30/73 
-6-
condition for several years and there was support for the suggestion that 
prior to acting on Swiss-Israel's grandfather privileges, information 
should be obtained regarding Swiss-Israel's views and intentions concerning 
American Bank. 
It was therefore agreed that staff would arrange a meeting with 
representatives of Swiss-Israel and that the Board would consider the 
matter further following that meeting. 
Working-capital acceptances. In view of questions that had 
arisen regarding the legal status of working-capital acceptances, also 
known as finance bills, the staff had been asked to study the matter 
and report to the Board its findings, together with any proposed action. 
In a memorandum dated January 12, 1973, the Legal Division recom-
mended issuance of (1) an interpretation of section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act stating that the per-customer and aggregate limitations under 
that section applying to bank acceptances applied only to acceptances of 
the type described in that section; and (2) a notice of proposed rule 
making regarding an amendment to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, 
that would apply reserve requirements against the proceeds of the sale 
by member banks of their own bank acceptances of the type not eligible 
for discount by Federal Reserve Banks. The effect of these measures 
would be that working-capital acceptances i^ould not be subject to amount 
limitations under section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, but would be 
subject to reserve requirements. Other related documentation included 
a memorandum dated January 26, 1973, from the Division of Research and 
Statistics. 

1/30/73 
-7-
During discussion reservations were expressed with respect to 
the implications of the actions recommended by the staff. Particular 
concern was registered regarding the effect the proposed actions might 
have on the System's ability to control the volume of bank credit. After 
further brief discussion it was understood that this subject would be 
considered again at a later date. 
First National City Overseas. In a memorandum dated January 19 , 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, requesting that an English data processing subsidiary 
be permitted to continue to offer programming services for an additional 
year, during which time the subsidiary probably would be sold. In Decembi 
1971 the Board had allowed the applicant one year in which to phase out 
the programming services of the subsidiary. 
Support was indicated for the staff recommendation. However, it 
was felt that the staff should explore the question whether present 
restrictions under Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, applicable to 
domestic subsidiaries of bank holding companies should also apply to 
their foreign subsidiaries. The Board thereupon unanimously approved 
the application. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
7 / 
Secretary 

T E L E. G R A M 
Item'No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
j / 3 q / 7 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
• 
1 January 30, 1973 
TO THE PRESIDENT OF EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 
The Board feels it urgent for the System to launch immediately an 
intensive and high level review of System policies, programs and activities --
both at the Reserve Banks and the Board — to identify and recommend changes 
which would bring about lasting and meaningful improvements in the way the 
System conducts its business and thereby improve System effectiveness rnd 
capture permanent cost savings, 
To that end, it is proposed that an organization meeting be held, 
tentatively scheduled at 3:30 P.M. on Friday, February 2 at the Chicago 
Reserve Bank, with the Presidents and the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation and Building Plans for the purpose of discussing the proposed 
\ 
review and its organization and execution. 
In 
the 
interim, 
the 
Division 
of 
Federal 
Bank Operations has been directed to launch, jointly with appropriate 
officials of the Reserve Banks, a prompt review of current and planned 
security expenditures to identify appropriate savings, if possible. 

y 
: -•.'.. 
• • 
• 
' 
• 
• O O i 
r"'- • - 
. ' • -.' • 
• 
This does not reflect a Board judgment to dcemphasizc this program. 
U 
— it does reflect the Board's desire to respond to the suggestions of Reserve 
^ 
Bank executives that there are opportunities for efficiencies in this area 
without compromising the integrity of our operations^ 
^ 
ohn E. Sheehan 

, 3 3 3 
Item No. 2 
BOARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
1/30/73 
.. 
. 
DF THE 
, • of GOw- '. 
.•>s:y;,./.>%:•. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
\ TF\YT. v 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
mm 
>10nESS DfTiriAL. CGRRE5PCNCENCE 
^ 
TX3 THE CHARD 
January 30, 197 3 
First National City Overseas 
Iiivcrt m en t Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 4, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("FNCOIC")> 
to purchase and hold up to 50 per cent of the shares of Arnotts 
First City Building Society, ("AFCBS!1), Victoria, Australia, at 
a cor.t of approximately A$ 1,000,000 (about $1,280,000), provided 
the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter * 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares o£ AFCBS by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in AFCBS if AFCBS at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or ii: 
AFCBS establishes any branch or agency or takes 
any action or undertakes any operation in Australia 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not te permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
FNCOIC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of AFCBS as it may re-
quire from time to time; and 

, 3 3 4 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
AFCBS be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same, manner as if AFCBS 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (I) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate Co restrictions on loans granted by AFCBS in Australia 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association. 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of AFCBS. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be\nade within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

•(v / I 
,; 
: 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item N°- 3 
• F THE 
i/ 3 0/ 7 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
AIORESS official correspondence 
TO THE EJOARD 
January 30, 1973 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 7, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for year Corporation, ("FNCOIC") 
to Purchase and hold all of the shares of Citicard SCA. Comercial, 
Financiera y de Servicios, ("CSA"), Buenos Aires, Argentina, at a 
cost of approximately A$400,000 (about $40,000), provided the 
shores are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CSA by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not. hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CSA if CSA at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if CSA establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any op-
eration in Argentina or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC: 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of CSA as it may require from time to 
time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CSA 
be reported under Section 2.11,8(u) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if CSA were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

*"B *< 
v K 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(4) That CSA will not issue credit cards to residents 
of the United States which could be utilized in 
the United States„ 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by CSA in Argentina in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of 
Association, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of CSA0 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
invcstorent'will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to First National City Bank and irs affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

,337 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
1/30/73 
OF THE: 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
A'-'OREF.S OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THC BOARD 
January 30, 1.973 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested In your letter of December 19, 1972, 
the Board of Governors grants permission for your Cor-
poration, ("FNC0IC"), lo continue to hold the stock of 
Computer Projects Limited, ("CPL"), London, England, even 
though CPL continue to offer programming services under 
contract, provided that such services are completely 
terminated by December 31, 1973, or that FNCOT.C has dis-
posed of its holdings of stock of CPL by that date. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
