MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 7, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 5 Amendment to Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks. 

4 7 9 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, December 7, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Broida, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Altmann, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Managing Director for Operations and 
Supervision 
Mr, Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Veenstra, Senior Staff Assistant, Division 
of Data Processing 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the payment 
of salary to Richard G. Davis, Vice President in charge of Research 
and Statistics at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, at the rate 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4738 
12/7/73 
-2-
set by the Bank's Board of Directors. A copy of the letter sent to 
the New York Bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously denied a request by the Chicago Area 
Coalition on Mortgage Policies of the National Peoples Action on 
Housing that the Board initiate a program of collecting certain loan 
and deposit data from State member banks in the Chicago area. A 
copy of the letter sent in reply to the request is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Tennessee 
Valley Bancorp, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to First Trust & Savings Bank, Clarksville, 
Tennessee, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this deci-
sion. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Economic review. The regular weekly economic and financial 
review was presented. Copies of the statistical materials prepared 
for the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed legislative developments of interest 
to the System. 
All staff members then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, 
Allison, Melnicoff, Partee, Axilrod, Coyne, Bryant, Solomon, Oehmann, 
and Veenstra. 

4739 
12/7/73 
-3-
Proposed delegation of authority to Financial Statistics 
Committee. With a memorandum of November 12, 1973, the Committee on 
Financial Statistics submitted a proposed amendment to the Board's 
Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority that would formalize the 
Committee's purposes and authorize the Committee to take certain 
actions on behalf of the Board. 
After discussion, it was understood that the Committee would 
modify the proposed amendment in light of the comments made for 
consideration by the Board at a later date. 
Messrs. Solomon and Veenstra then withdrew, and Mr. O'Brien 
returned to the meeting. 
Repayment of swap debt. Governor Holland commented on matters 
relating to the repayment of the Federal Reserve's swap debt. A 
discussion followed. 
Letter from Boston Reserve Bank regarding discount rate. 
Subsequent to the Board's disapproval on November 27, 1973, of an action 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston to reduce its discount rate, 
the Board of Directors of the Boston Bank had been invited to explain 
more fully the reasons for its action. Copies of Chairman Duesenberry's 
letter of reply, dated December 4, 1973, had been distributed prior 
to today's meeting. 
At today's meeting, Governor Holland sought the views of the 
other members of the Board as to whether Chairman Duesenberry's letter 

4 8 0 0 
12/7/73 
-4-
had been helpful and whether other Reserve Bank Boards should be 
encouraged to elaborate upon the considerations underlying their 
actions to change the discount rate in the future. Discussion 
revealed a consensus that such fuller explanations are beneficial 
and should be encouraged. 
Acquisition of additional office space. At the Board meeting 
on September 27, 1973, the staff had been authorized to proceed with 
negotiations looking toward the possible acquisition of property at 
2101 and 2103 E Street, N.W., and of other properties in the immediate 
vicinity. 
At today's meeting, Mr. Melnicoff reported that the staff 
had since concluded that the Board does not have clear legal authority 
to purchase the property in question. Accordingly, Mr. Melnicoff 
recommended that the staff be authorized to proceed with discussions 
regarding terms of a possible long-term lease of the property at 
2101 and 2103 E Street, N.W. 
After discussion, the Board approved Mr. Melnicoffs recom-
mendation, it being understood that no commitments would be made 
regarding the possible leasing of the property pending determination 
by the Board of its over-all space needs. 
Messrs. Melnicoff and Allison then withdrew from the meeting. 

4801 
12/7/73 
-5-
Margin requirements. At its meetings on November 19 and 30, 
1973, the Board discussed possible action to reduce margin require-
ments for purchasing or carrying stocks. At today's meeting, there 
was a general discussion of recent developments in the financial 
markets, including the announcement today of an increase to 10 per 
cent in the prime lending rate of a few major money market banks. 
The Board gave further consideration to a possible reduction in 
margin requirements on stock market credit, and decided not to move 
ahead at this time, partly in view of the highly unsettled state of 
the market. 
Marginal reserve requirement. The Board then turned to 
discussion of a possible reduction in the marginal reserve require-
ment on large-denomination certificates of deposit and related 
instruments. A marginal reserve requirement (the regular 5 per cent 
plus a supplemental 3 per cent) had been imposed by the Board on 
May 16, 1973, and an additional 3 per cent marginal reserve was 
imposed on September 7, 1973, thus raising the total reserve require-
ment on affected liabilities to 11 per cent. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was agreed that the 
Board would reconvene at 2:30 p.m. today to consider further a 
possible reduction in the marginal reserve requirement on large-
denomination CD's. 

48)2 
12/7/73 
-6-
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room 
at 2:30 p.m. with Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
Bucher, and Holland present and substantially the same staff atten-
dance as at the end of the morning session. 
desirability of acting promptly to reduce the marginal reserve 
requirement on large-denomination certificates of deposit and related 
instruments from 11 per cent to 8 per cent. After discussion, the 
Board unanimously approved an amendment to Regulation D, Reserves of 
Member Banks, reducing the marginal reserve requirement from 11 per 
cent to 8 per cent, to become effective on deposits outstanding 
in the week beginning December 13, 1973. The Board also unanimously 
approved, with changes, a draft press release announcing the action. 
Attached under Item No. 4 is a copy of the press release, accompanied 
by a Federal Register notice regarding the amendment. 
stood that letters would be sent to certain State nonmember banks and 
U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks that had been voluntarily 
maintaining marginal reserves informing them of the Board's action, 
and that informational wires would also be sent to the State bank 
supervisors concerned. Attached under Item No. 5 are copies of the 
letters and wire in the form sent. 
Marginal reserve requirement. Discussion centered on the 
During the course of the foregoing discussion, it was under-
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 
20551 
4803 
Item No. 1 
12/7/73 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C D R R ES PO NDC N CE 
TO THE BOARD 
December 7, 1973 
Mr. Alfred Hayes 
President 
Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of 
salary to Mr. Richard G. Davis as Vice President and Officer 
in charge of Research and Statistics of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York at the annual rate of $46,500, for the 
period December 1 through December 31, 1973. This is the 
salary fixed by your Board of Directors as reported in your 
letter of November 19, 1973. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary 

. 4804 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
~ * 
.••oVcoV>. 
OF THE 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 2 / 7 / 7 3 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
V J w i i n W ^ ' 
I j j j I [ . 
• 
ADDRESS arnciAi cdkrespondcnc
,' 
. 
TD THE BQARO 
'•f^Rtsf;-' 
December 7, 1973 
Ms. Gale Cincotta 
Chicago Area Mortgage Coalition 
4207 West Division Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60651 
Dear Ms. Cincotta: 
This is in response to a request by the Chicago Area Coalition 
on Mortgage Policies of the National Peoples Action on Housing ("Coalition") 
that the Federal Reserve obtain from State member banks in the Chicago area 
certain data. The data would include information about the distribution 
of loans and deposits by zip code as well as the terms of such loans to 
permit an analysis of lending patterns and practices to determine if 
lending institutions arc following a policy of blocking out certain areas 
or neighborhoods from consideration for conventional loans with terms 
comparable to those prevailing generally. Further, we understand that the 
Coalition requests that the data obtained from individual banks be turned 
over to it: and that an ongoing system for the collection of such data on 
a periodic basis be established. 
As you are aware, the Board of Governors has responsibility 
over State-member banks to ensure compliance with Title VIII of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1968 which prohibits discrimination in real estate lending 
on the basis of race, color, religion or national origin. In connection 
with this responsibility, the Board is currently engaged in a joint effort 
with the other Federal financial supervisory agencies to develop regulations 
which would require financial institutions to obtain racial data from 
applicants for real estate loans and to retain such data for a reason-
able period of time. It is believed that such a record keeping requirement 
would facilitate the analysis of lending patterns and hopefully provide 
more meaningful methods of identifying instances of "redlining" based 
on race, color, religion or national origin. Further, maintenance of 
racial data on all loan applicants for real estate loans, including those 
applicants to whom a loan is not made, will provide a body of information 
as to the lending practices of financial institutions which does not 

. 4805 
Ms. Gale Cincotta 
now exist and which is viewed as essential if any accurate assessment of 
lending practices is to be made. 
In light of these considerations, and in view of the advanced 
stage of the agencies1 efforts to finalize record keeping regulations, 
the Board believes that it would be inadvisable at this time to undertake 
data collection of the type you request on a localized basis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. FelJberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
\ 

4806 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
12/7/73 
TENNESSEE VALLEY BANCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Tennessee Valley Bancorp, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of the 
successor by merger to First Trust & Savings Bank, Clarksville, Tennessee 
("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of 
Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the appli-
cation in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 

4807 
- 2 -
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization in Tennessee, 
controls three banks with aggregate deposits of $760.9 million,which 
represent 7.1 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the 
State, The proposed acquisition would not significantly alter Applicant's 
share of total commercial bank deposits in Tennessee. 
Bank, with deposits of $33.9 million, is the smallest of three 
2/ 
commercial banks in the Montgomery County banking market—' and controls 
about 27 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in said market. 
Consummation of this proposal would constitute Applicant's initial entry 
Into the Montgomery County banking market. Applicant's nearest banking 
office, a branch of its lead bank, is located outside of Montgomery County, 
in Springfield, Tennessee, about 31 miles east of Bank. No competition 
exists between any of Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank; and, there-
fore, no competition will be eliminated as a result of consummation of 
this proposal. Moreover, Tennessee's restrictive branching laws limit 
the possibility that such competition would develop in the future. In 
addition, it appears unlikely that Applicant would enter Bank's market 
de novo in the near future due to that market's population to banking 
office ratio, which is below the statewide average. On the basis of 
1/ Unless otherwiseTindicated, deposit data are as of June 30, 1973, 
adjusted to reflect holding company acquisitions and formations 
approved by the Board through October 31, 1973. 
2/ Approximated by Montgomery County, Tennessee. 

the record, the Board considers that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any relevant 
area to any significant extent. 
Applicant has committed itself to inject equity capital 
into Bank and Applicant's lead bank before June 30, 1974. In light 
of these commitments and all facts of record, it appears that 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant, 
its present subsidiary banks, and Bank are satisfactory and consistent 
with approval of the application. Considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the community are likewise consistent with 
approval. Affiliation with Applicant will assist Bank in meeting 
the borrowing needs of its larger customers; and such affiliation 
will make available to Clarksville citizens certain services not 
currently available in that community, such as, for example, commer-
cial data processing services. It is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed acquisition is in the public interest and that the appli-
cation should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 

4809 
- 4 -
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,"" effective December 7, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
3/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Sheehan. 

5&V 
mio 
Item No. 4 
12/7/73 
F°r Immediate Release 
December 7, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
Enounced a reduction from 11 per cent to 8 per cent in its marginal 
Reserve requirement on large denomination certificates of deposit (CDs), 
^is action -- which will reduce the costs to banks of accomodating the 
Credit needs of their customers -- was taken in recognition of the 
Moderation in bank credit growth achieved over recent months. 
Hie announced reduction will take effect on deposits in the week 
^ginning next Thursday, December 13, and will reduce required reserves 
two weeks later, when there is a seasonal need to provide reserves to the 
banking system. The net effect of the Board's action will be to reduce by 
a W t $375 million the reserves required to support member bank deposits. 
A marginal reserve requirement (the regular 5 per cent plus a 
SuPplemental 3 per cent) was first announced by the Board on May 16 as 
of a series of actions designed to curb a rapid expansion in bank 
Credit and help moderate inflationary pressures. An additional 3 per cent 
tnar£inal reserve was announced by the Board on September 7, thus raising 
total reserve requirement on affected deposits to 11 per cent. 
In recent months, the rate of growth in bank credit has moderated, 
anci the outstanding amount of large denomination CDs has dropped substantially, 
^siness loan expansion at banks has been at a much slower pace than earlier 
year, and extensions of other forms of bank credit have also slowed. 
The marginal reserve requirement applies to increases (beyond 
amount outstanding in the week ended toy 16) in the total of (a) .time 

4811 
- 
2 
-
deposits in denominations of $100,000 and over and (b) bank-related com-
mercial paper and finance bills with a maturity of 30 days or more. In 
no case does the supplemental reserve apply to banks whose obligations of 
these types total less than $10 million. 
The Board said the action also affects certain nonmember State 
banks and 
S. agencies and branches of foreign banks which have been 
voluntarily holding marginal reserves on large CDs at the request of the 
Board. The special marginal reserve held by these institutions will now 
be reduced.from 6 per cent to 3 per cent. The Board expressed its appreciation 
to the nonmember institutions for their continued cooperation. 
- 0 -

4812 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Reserve Percentages 
On May 16, 1973, and July 16, 1973, the Board of Governors 
applied a marginal reserve requirement against certain classes of time 
deposits (38 FR 13726, 38 FR 19908). On September 7, 1973, the Board 
increased the marginal reserve requirement from 8 to 11 per cent, subject 
to the provision that in no event shall the reserves required of a member 
bank on its aggregate amount of time and savings deposits exceed 10 per 
cent. 
The Board has amended Regulation D (12 CFR 204) to reduce to 
8 per cent the marginal reserve requirement on those classes of time 
deposits currently subject to the 11 per cent marginal reserve require-
ment. This action was taken pursuant to the Board's authority under 
section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461) to set reserve 
ratios for member banks. 
There was no notice or public participation with respect to 
this amendment since such procedure would result in delay that would be 
contrary to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. The 
effective date was deferred for less than the 30-day period referred 

to in section 553(d) of Title 5, United States Code, because the Board 
found that the general credit situation and the public interest compelled 
it to make the action effective no later than the date adopted. See 
§ 262.2(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure, 12 CFR § 262.2(e). 
Effective December 13, 1973, § 204.5(a)(1)(ii) and 2(ii) of 
Regulation D is amended to read as follows: 
§ 204.5 Reserve Requirements. 
(a) Reserve percentages. Pursuant to the provisions of 
section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act and § 204.2(a) and subject to 
Paragraph (c) of this section, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System hereby prescribes the following reserve balances that each 
Member bank of the Federal Reserve System is required to maintain on 
deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank of its district: 
(1) If not in a reserve city— 
* 
* 
* 
(ii) 3 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 million, 
Plus 5 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million: Provided, 
however, That a member bank shall maintain a reserve balance equal to 
8 per cent of the amount by which the daily average amount of time deposits 
°f the types hereinafter specified exceeds either the daily average amount 
of such time deposits outstanding during the computation period ending 
May 169 1973, or $10 million, whichever is greater, and such 8 per cent 
reserve percentage shall apply with respect to time deposits of the 

4814 
-3-
following types: 
(a) time deposits of $100,000 or more; and 
(b) time deposits represented by promissory notes, 
acknowledgments of advance, due bills, or similar 
obligations issued by a member bank's affiliate, as 
provided in § 204.1(f); and 
(c) time deposits represented by bank acceptances, 
as provided in § 204.1(f); and 
* 
* 
* 
(2) If in a reserve city (except as to any bank located in 
such a city that is permitted by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, pursuant to § 204.2(a)(2), to maintain the reserves 
specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph)— 
* 
* 
* 
(ii) 3 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 million, 
Plus 5 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million: Provided, 
however, That a member bank shall maintain a reserve balance equal to 
8 per cent of the amount by which the daily average amount of time deposits 
°f the types hereinafter specified exceeds either the daily average 
amount of such time deposits outstanding during the computation period 
ending May 16, 1973, or $10 million, whichever is greater, and such 
8 per cent reserve percentage shall apply with respect to time deposits 
the following types: 
(a) time deposits of $100,000 or more; and 

(b) tittle deposits represented by promissory notes, 
acknowledgments of advance, due bills, or similar obliga-
tions issued by a member bank's affiliate, as provided 
in § 204.1(f); and 
(c) time deposits represented by bank acceptances, 
as provided in § 204.1(f); and 
* 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 7, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

.•Aofcov^; 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D OP" G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
December 14, 1973 
Item No. 5 
12/7/73 
LETTER TO PARTICIPATING NONMEMBER BANKS 
You will recall that in my letter of May 16, 1973, requesting 
that your bank cooperate voluntarily in holding reserves at Federal 
Re serve Banks on increases in certain liabilities, I stated that the 
request would be withdrawn at the earliest possible time consistent with 
the national interest. This promise was repeated in Vice Chairman 
Mitchell's letter of September 20, 1973, when the marginal reserve 
requirement was increased from 3 to 6 per cent. 
The Board on December 7 acted to reduce the marginal reserve 
requirement for member banks from 11 per cent to 8 per cent, effective 
on deposits outstanding in the week beginning December 13. The action 
extends, of course, to the branches and affiliates of foreign banks 
participating in the program, whose special marginal reserves on large-
denomination certificates of deposit will be reduced from 6 to 3 per cent. 
The reserve ratio that you have -been asked to maintain on borrowings from 
foreign banks has not been changed. 
The Board took this action in the light of the recent modera-
tion in bank credit expansion, and the decline in the outstanding volume 
of large certificates of deposit. Enclosed is a copy of the Board's press 
release announcing this action. 
I want to take this opportunity to express the BoardTs appreci-
ation of your continued cooperation. Your voluntary participation is a 
splendid example of the exercise of restraint in the public interest. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 
V 

4817 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
December 14, 1973 
LETTER TO BRANCHES AND AFFILIATES OF FOREIGN BANKS 
You will recall that in my letter of May 16, 1973, requesting 
that your bank cooperate voluntarily in holding reserves at Federal 
Reserve Banks on increases in certain liabilities, I stated that the 
request would be withdrawn at the earliest possible time consistent with 
the national interest. This promise was repeated in Vice Chairman 
Mitchell's letter of September 20, 1973, when the marginal reserve 
requirement was increased from 3 to 6 per cent. 
The Board on December 7 acted to reduce the marginal reserve 
requirement for member banks from 11 per cent to 8 per cent, effective 
on deposits outstanding in the week beginning December 13. The action 
extends, of course, to the nonmember banks participating in the program, 
whose special marginal reserves will be reduced from 6 to 3 per cent. 
The Board took this action in the light of the recent modera-
tion in bank credit expansion, and the decline in the outstanding volume 
of large certificates of deposit. Enclosed is a copy of the Board's press 
release announcing this action. 
I want to take this opportunity to express the Board's appreci-
ation of your continued cooperation. Your voluntary participation is a 
splendid example of the exercise of restraint in the public interest. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

4818 
TELEGRAM SENT TO STATE BANK SUPERVISORS 
December 7, .1973 
For your information, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Sys tern today announced a reduction from 31 per cent to 8 per cent 
in its marginal reserve requirement on large denomination certificates 
of deposit. This action 
which will reduce the costs to banks of 
accommodating the credit needs of their customers — was taken in 
recognition of the moderation in bank credit growth over recent 
months. 
The announced reduction will take effect in the week beginning next 
'Inursday (December 13) and will reduce required reserves two weeks 
later when there is a seasonal need to provide reserves to the 
banking system. 
'•today's action affects cooperating State nonmenber banks and U.S. 
agencies and branches of foreign banks which have been voluntarily 
holding marginal reserves on large CD's. Board will communicate 
directly with cooperating nonmenbers, and extend its thanks for 
continned cooperation. 
Chester B« Feldberg, Secretary 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
