MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 19, 1973 

4 5 1 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 19, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Broida, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Altmann, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
The research staff presented a review of domestic and international 
^evelopments in preparation for this week's meeting of the Federal Open 
arket Committee. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the 
review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4 5 4 4 
11/19/73 
-2-
individual briefings. Mr. Cardon then reviewed legislative developments 
of interest to the System. 
Staff members who had attended only for purposes of the review 
then withdrew. 
Margin requirements. 
In a memorandum of November 16, 1973, the 
Division of Research and Statistics reviewed recent stock market devel-
opments and outlined for the Board's consideration several possible 
amendments to the Board's margin regulations(Regulations G, T, and U) 
that would reduce margin requirements on certain securities. 
After discussion, it was agreed that, in light of this morning's 
Weaker prices on the major stock exchanges, the Board would defer further 
consideration of the proposed changes until 3:45 p.m. this afternoon. 
President Morris of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston then 
joined the meeting, as did several members of the Board's staff. 
NOW accounts. On November 15, 1973, the Board discussed a summary 
comments received regarding its published proposals for regulating 
accounts subject to negotiable orders of withdrawal (NOW accounts). 
Pursuant to guidance given during that discussion, the staff had prepared 
a memorandum dated November 16 appraising the merits of two regulatory 
Philosophies, one calling for minimum regulation and the other for 
maximum safeguards, item limitations, and mandatory service charges on 
^OW account transfers. The staff made a number of recommendations regarding 
the principal issues involved, reflecting its basic preference for the 
mitUmal regulatory philosophy. 

4 5 4 5 
11/19/73 
-3-
Discussion at today's meeting, which included comments by 
President Morris, was intended to synthesize a Board position for presen-
tation by Governor Mitchell at a forthcoming meeting of the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. The views expressed were 
substantially in favor of the staff recommendations. 
Among other things, the staff had recommended that interest 
rate ceilings for NOW accounts should be identical for all depository 
institutions, and set at 4-1/2 per cent. Although the majority accepted 
that rate, some willingness was expressed for setting a slightly higher 
rate. 
It was observed that a press release was expected to be issued 
today inviting comments on proposals for changes in the basic structure 
of the nation's payments mechanism, involving amendments to Regulation J, 
Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks. Question 
W as raised whether that invitation should be delayed until it could be 
accompanied by the regulatory changes regarding NOW accounts. The Board 
decided not to delay the announcement of the Regulation J proposals. 
The staff had also recommended that full clearance facilities 
should not be made available to thrift institutions, but that each NOW-
issuing thrift institution should be assigned a unique routing symbol 
in order that its NOW drafts might be cleared through the Federal Reserve 
System without carrying the name of a correspondent commercial bank, 
discussion developed agreement that at least until the expiration of the 
^20-day period for receiving comments on the Regulation J proposals, the 

4 5 4 6 
11/19/73 
-4-
present arrangement would be continued, under which the Federal Reserve 
Banks will make direct presentment of items to nonmember institutions 
but will not accept direct presentment from them, requiring that their 
items be routed through a member bank. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that 
negotiations with the other agencies sharing regulatory authority would 
go forward on the basis of the views expressed. 
Consent calendar. Today's agenda called for consideration of 
the application of Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, New York, New York, 
to acquire shares of (1) Manufacturers Hanover Overseas Capital Corpo-
ration, to be formed under the laws of Delaware, and (2) Manufacturers 
Hanover Leasing (Nassau) Ltd., Nassau, Bahamas. However, action was 
^ferreci pending exploration by the staff of questions that were raised. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of NCNB International 
banking Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of a Hong Kong 
Merchant bank, Inter-Asia Finance Limited, and for permission for the 
latter to issue certain debt obligations. A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bank of America, 
New York, New York, for permission to acquire additional shares of Northern 
industrial Finance Corporation, Makati, Philippines (to be renamed BA 
Hnance Corporation), through the exchange of shares now held of Industrial 
Finance Corporation, also of Makati. A copy of the letter sent to the 
aPplicant is attached as Item No. 2. 

4 5 4 7 
11/19/73 
-5-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Morgan 
Guaranty International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, to 
establish a merchant banking corporation in Hong Kong. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Pennsyl-
vania Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to acquire shares of 
First International Leasing, Ltd., Guernsey, Channel Islands, and for 
permission for the latter organization to issue certain debt obligations. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Security 
Pacific Overseas Corp., Los Angeles, California, to acquire shares of 
Ihe Bank of Canton (Nominees) Limited, Hong Kong, and of Canbank Finance 
Limited, also of Hong Kong. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
l s attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United First 
Florida Banks, Inc., Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of Marine Bank 
Kissimmee, Kissimmee, Florida, a proposed new bank, and authorized 
lssuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
6. The Board also unanimously approved the application of 
Marine Bank of Kissimmee for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
^ copy 0f th e letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 7. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division of Supervision and 
^e8ulation in a memorandum dated November 1, 1973, the Board unanimously 

4 5 4 8 
11/19/73 
-6-
a£]3roved changes in internal procedures for determining whether an 
over-the-counter margin stock is failing the average price requirement 
for continued inclusion on the List of OTC Margin Stocks. The proposed 
changes (which would not apply in determining the eligibility of OTC 
stocks for initial inclusion in the list) contemplated that (1) an OTC 
margin stock will not be regarded as failing the average price require-
ment unless its average prices for both (a) the six-month survey period 
and (b) the period between such survey period and the revision of the 
list were less than $5 a share; and (2) before any OTC margin stock is 
removed from the list, notice of such intention will be announced with 
a 30-day delayed effective date to allow time for appeal. The changes 
were recommended in the light of a request for review that had been 
received from Gelman Instrument Company after its stock was deleted from 
the list in a general revision of September 4, 1973; if the changes 
Were approved, the company's stock would be reinstated on the list. 
Pursuant to the Board's approval of the changes, a letter x^as sent to 
Gelman Instrument Company in the form attached as Item No. 8. Attached 
a S -^tem No. 9 is a copy of a press release announcing changes in the 
Ijist of OTC Margin Stocks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Franklin 
incorporation, Somerset, New Jersey, to become a bank holding company 
tl^ough acquisition of shares of Franklin State Bank, Franklin Township 
Somerset), New Jersey, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 

4 5 4 9 
11/19/73 
-7-
this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 10. After agreement 
upon changes in a draft that had been prepared, the Board also unani-
mously approved a letter to Franklin Bancorporation in the form 
attached as Item No. 11. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of NBS Financial 
Corporation, Southfield, Michigan, to acquire shares of National Bank 
°f Royal Oak, Royal Oak, Michigan, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 12. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Committee on Federal 
Reserve Bank Activities in a memorandum dated November 14, 1973, the 
B°ard agreed to interpose no objection to a proposed 3 per cent across-
the-board salary adjustment for the employees of the Federal Reserve 
Batik of Dallas, effective January 1, 1974. Attached as Item No. 13 is 
a copy of the letter sent to the Reserve Bank. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
The following persons then joined the meeting: 
Mrs. Heller and Messrs. Plotkin and Tuttie, 
Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Gelder, Assistant Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York 
Other supporting staff 

. 4 5 5 0 
11/19/73 
-8-
Chase Manhattan Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated November 14, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Division of 
Research and Statistics recommended denial of the application of The 
Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of 
°ial Financial Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa. The Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York had recommended approval upon condition that Chase Manhattan 
expand its proposed risk-rating program beyond the preliminary stage 
contemplated in the application. 
After discussion, which included comments by Mr. Gelder in 
support of the favorable recommendation of the New York Reserve Bank, 
action was deferred pending exploration by the staff of various questions 
raised by members of the Board. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Special Library 
a t 3:45 p.m. with Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, 
Slleehan, Bucher, and Holland present and the following staff members in 
attendance: 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research 
and Economic Policy and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Managing Director for 
Operations and Supervision 

4 5 5 1 
11/19/73 
-9-
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Kichline, Chief, Capital Markets Section, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Margin requirements. It had been agreed at this morning's 
session to defer until this afternoon further consideration of possible 
amendments to Regulations G, T, and U to reduce margin requirements on 
certain securities. 
At this afternoon's meeting, Chairman Burns noted that stock 
prices continued to be unstable. The Board agreed that under the 
circumstances it would not be desirable to lower margin requirements 
today; it was understood that the matter would be deferred for further 
consideration at a later date. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
(Note: By ordersdated September 27, 1973, the Board approved 
the applications of Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, Dover, Delaware, 
to acquire shares of Citizens Mortgage Corporation, Southfield, Michigan, 
and of Mellon National Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to acquire 
shares of Carruth Mortgage Corporation, New Orleans, Louisiana. It was 
understood at that time that a concurring statement by Governor Bucher 
w°uld be issued later. The statement was issued today in the form attached 
a s Item No. 14.) 
Secretary J 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
11/19/73 
NCNB International Banking Corporation 
44 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
A D D R E S S 
a r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 20, 1973 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 8, 1973. the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("NIBC") to purchase 
and hold, directly or indirectly, 60 per cent of the shares and an 
option to acquire the remaining shares of Inter-Asia Finance Limited 
("IAF"), Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately HK$6,000,000 (about 
$1,200 ,000), provided the $600,000 Is invested in the shares within 
one year from the date of this letter and provided further that the 
option to acquire the remaining shares of IAF is exercised only with 
prior Board approval. In this connection, approval is also granted for 
the purchase and holding of shares of IAF by your Corporation in excess 
of the applicable limitations set forth in the provisions of 
Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal Reserve Act and 
Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of IAF by NIBC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That NIBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in IAF if IAF at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if IAF establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Hong Kong or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to NIBC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, NIBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of IAF as it may require from time to 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by IAF 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if IAF were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 

4 5 5 3 
NCNB International Banking Corp. 
- 2 -
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
delate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b) and (c) of 
Regulation K. 
The Board also grants consent for NIBC to continue to hold 
the shares of IAF after IAF issues and has outstanding obligations with 
maturities in excess of one year up to a total of HK$50,000,000 (about 
$10,000,000). 
You have requested consent for IAF to engage in the business 
underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board's consent to such 
activi ties is conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining the prior 
c°nsent of the Board for the continued holding of shares of IAF should 
acquire stock of individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 
°r Representing 25 per cent or more of the voting shares of any company, 
e^cept in the case of underwriting operations covered by firm commitments 
from subunderwriters or other purchasers. With respect to trading in 
securities in which Corporations are prohibited from investing by the 
Provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact 
that IAF will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, main-
tain a size and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in relation 
demand, and dispose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they are to 
e reported as a separate class, together with the date of acquisition, 
°U any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested by the Board. 
You also requested that IAF be permitted to acquire stocks in 
?°nnection with merger or acquisition operations and that in some cases 
may be necessary to take title as an intermediary. From this and 
information furnished, the Board understands that such acquisitions, 
uich will be of short duration, will in essence be for the account of 
0-her parties and not of IAF and, furthermore, that the operation will 
be at the risk of IAF, even though its resources may be utilized, 
n°e such utilization will create an at least equal obligation to IAF 
the part of the real partyat interest. 
t 
The Board has concluded that acquisitions of stock coming within 
e understandings in the immediately preceding paragraph are essentially 
Uciary in character, and would be permissible for IAF without regard 
fche limitations and requirements set forth in Section 211.8(a) and (b) 

4 5 5 4 
NCNB International Banking Corp. 
- 3 -
°f Regulation K. However, in view of the unusual character of these 
operations and because of their purported rarity in regard to lAF's 
general business, the Board will expect full details in regard to them 
in any reports called for under conditions (2) or (3) in the second 
Paragraph of this letter. 
You have requested consent for IAF to engage in the business of 
Providing consulting services outside the United States. The Board's 
consent is granted subject to the condition that such services relating 
t o the United States market will be confined to the initial entry of 
foreign companies into that market. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
a s they apply to North Carolina National Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

^ T r e ^ V 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
11/19/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 20, 1973 
Bank of America 
41 Broad Street 
New York, New York 
10004 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 5, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("B of A") 
to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, additional shares, 
so that B of A's aggregate equity interest does not exceed 40 
per cent, of Northern Industrial Finance Corporation ("NIFC"), 
Makati, Philippines, through the exchange of shares of Industrial 
Finance Corporation, also located in Makati, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of NIFC by B of A is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That B or A shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in NIFC if NIFC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if NIFC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in the Philippines or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to B of A; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, B of A 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of NIFC as it may require from time 
to time; 

4 5 5 6 
Bank of America 
- 2 -
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
NIFC be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regu-
lation K in the same manner as if NIFC were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That B of A shall not carry on its books the shares 
of NIFC at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of NIFC after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by NIFC in the Philippines 
in the currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to Bank of America NT & SA and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

A f 
4 5 5 / 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
11/19/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 20, 1973 
Morgan Guaranty International Finance 
Corporation 
23 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 12, 1973, 
he Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("MGIFC") 
to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all the shares of a 
m ^ ? / ^ 8 C o r P ° r a t i o n (HKC), Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately 
HK?10,000,000 (about $2,000,000), provided the shares are acquired 
Wl-thin one year from the' date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed direct or indirect 
Purchase and holding of shares of HKC by MGIFC is granted subject to 
Lrie following conditions: 
(1) That MGIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in HKC if HKC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if HKC establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Hong Kong or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to MGIFC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
MGIFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of HKC as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
HKC be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if HKC were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 

-3-
4 1 5 5 8 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of HKC. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines, 
as they apply to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company and its affiliates* 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

of Gov••. 
^LRtS^:.* 
4 5 5 9 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
11/19/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 20, 1973 
First Pennsylvania Corporation 
Fifteenth and Chestnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19102 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 4, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 4(c) (13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
amended and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your 
Corporation ("FPC") to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, 
all of the shares of First International Leasing Ltd. ("FIL"), 
Guernsey, Channel Islands, at a cost of approximately $2.5 million, 
Provided 5 per cent of such shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under 
Section 4(c)(13), FIL shall confine its activities to international 
0 r foreign banking and other international or foreign financial 
operations. 
i 
The Board also grants consent for FIL to issue and have 
outstanding borrowings in the United States with a maturity in 
excess of one year in an amount not to exceed $30 million. 
It is 
noted that these borrowings will be used by FIL solely to finance 
equipment leased abroad. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust 
c°mpany and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
11/19/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 20, 1973 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp. 
561 South Spring Street 
Los Angeles, California 
90013 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 8, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("SPOC") to 
Purchase and hold, d irectly or indirectly, all of the shares of 
The Bank Canton (Nominee) Limited ("BCNL"), Hong Kong, and of 
Canbank Finance Limited ("CFL"), Hong Kong, HK$10,000 (about $2,000) 
and HK$2,000,000 (about $400,000) respectively, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of BCNL by SPOC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That SPOC shall not hold directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BCNL if BCNL at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent of the 
Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if 
BCNL establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in Hong Kong or 
elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to SPOC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
SPOC will furnish the board with such reports 
regarding the activities of BCNL as it may require 
from time to time; and 

-20-
4 5 6 1 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BCNL be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if BCNL were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of CFL by SPOC is granted subject to the same conditions set 
forth in the immediately preceeding paragraph, substituting "CFL" for 
"BCNL", except, that subject to continuing observation and review, the 
Board suspends as to CFL. until further notice, the provisions of 
subparagraph (1) so far as they relate to restrictions set forth in 
Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investments will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to Security Pacific National Bank and its 
affiliates, or that the acquisitions will be made with the 
resources of Bank of Canton, Limited, Hong Kong and will not involve 
any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the 
United States. 
, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4 5 6 2 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/19/73 
UNITED FIRST FLORIDA BANKS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United First Florida Banks, Inc., Tampa, Florida, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
to acquire 85 per cent or more of the voting shares of Marine 
B a n k 
Kissimmee, Kissimmee, Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit their comments and views, has been given in accordance 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
arv(j n °one has been timely received. The application has been considered in 
liSht of the factors sett out in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant presently controls, or has Board approval to acquire, 
3 8 Subsidiary banks in Florida with total deposits of $1,226.7 million, 
Resenting 6.22 per cent of bank deposits in the state. 
(Banking data 
a a of December 31, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding company formations 
acquisitions approved by the Board through October 1, 1973.) Acquisition 
upon its formation will cause no immediate increase in Applicant's 
e 
total deposits in Florida banks or in Applicant's share of 
P°sits held by banks in the Osceola County banking market in which 
the 
pr°Posed bank would be located. The three banks in the market are 
h*ld K large multibank holding companies, and so it is not likely that 
^Pli cant will have a dominant market position in the future. The proposed 

4 5 6 3 
-2-
.^cquisition thus has no anticompetitive effects. 
Although Applicant will not introduce banking services not 
Cu*rently available in the market, the proposed new bank would offer 
residents of the area the convenience of an alternative source of banking 
Services. Convenience and needs factors are consistent with approval. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
ail(i future prospects of Applicant and Bank are regarded as satisfactory 
consistent with approval of the application, especially in view of 
PPHcant's commitments to increase the capital of a number of its sub-
^lary banks. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 
Would k 
oe in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record in this case, the application is 
Pproved for the reasons summarized above. However, the transaction shall 
Hot k. 
e made (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date nf u 
U I this Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) 
e Bank of Kisslmmee, Kissimmee, Florida, shall be opened for business 
,ot lati 
than six months after the effective date of this Order. Each 
the 
by 
of the 
Periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause 
th 
e Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
*Uth<>rity. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 19, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SSAL) 
* 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
er> Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. 

4 S 6 4 
B O A R D G F G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 7 
• F THE 
11/19/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D C R E . U S 
O F f l C I A l . 
U O R H E B P O N D E W 
T O 
T H E 
B E A R D 
November 19, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Marine Bank of Kissimmee 
Kissimmee, Florida 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
^pproves the application of Marine Bank of Kissimmee, Kissimmee, 
Florida, for stock in the Federal•Reserve Bank of Atlanta, effective 
1f and when the bank opens for business under appropriate State 
Authorization, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set 
forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibili ties. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $500,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$400,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
£tll~tieular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
e8ulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
hereof, 
a copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

Marine Bank of Kissimmee 
- 2 -
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, 
will be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve 
Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
°f the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice of 
compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be trans-
mitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Arrangements will there-
uPon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required reserve balance, 
ar*d to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the 
bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
t o 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised that 
of the requirements have been complied with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
Membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
t o assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve 
S>'stem and at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means 
f o r making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^closure 

± 5 G G 
•p^co;-.. 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 11 
11/19/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R F S P <3 N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 20, 1973 
Mr. Stuart A. Jackson 
Rogers & Wells 
Two Hundred Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10017 
i 
Dea r Mr. Jackson: 
This refers to your request dated September 26, 19733 for a 
review by the Board of its removal of the stock of Gelman Instrument 
Company (Gelman) from the Board's List of OTC Margin Stocks. 
Gelman's 
removal from the list was reviewed by the Board on November 19, 1973, 
a t which time it determined that Gelman should be reinstated on the 
list. The enclosed press release serves as notice of such action. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^closure 

Item No. 9 
p 
11/19/73 
immediate release 
November 20, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today announced 
S°Veral changes effective November 21, 1973, in its "List of OTC Margin Stocks" 
tVi 
was issued in revised form on September 4, 1973. 
Four stocks are added to the list and will be subject to the same 
65 . 
r Cent margin requirement as other over-the-counter margin stocks. These 
StocVo 
a a re Advanced Memory Systems, Inc., $.10 par common; GRT Corporation, 
$.50 
Par common; Gelman Instrument Company, $.10 par common; and Southland 
qulty Corporation, $.16-2/3 par common. 
Eight stocks are deleted from the list by virtue of being registered 
ational. securities exchange. These stocks are California-Pacific 
U U U t. 
l e s Company, $5.00 par common; Capital Mortgage Investments, $1.00 par 
° °f beneficial interest; Dick, A. B. Company, $1.00 par common; Frisch s 
Ul'ants, Inc., no par common; Interway Corporation, $1.00 per common; 
E 
nSland Gas and Electric Association, $4.00 par common; Tracor, Inc., 
Virion • 
» and Waste Management, Inc., $1.00 par common. Two other stocks, Median 
Investors, no par shares of beneficial interest,and Samsonite 
ation, no par common,are being delisted because they were acquired by 
oth0r firms. 
Six name changes are noted to update the list. American Family 
Ac; 
ssurance Company of Columbus, $1.00 par common, becomes American Family 
, $.10 par common; BCC, Inc., $.50 par common, is changed to 
Vhni ° a re Corporation, $.50 par common; First Mortgage Insurance Company, 

4 5 t > 8 
- 2 
-
$1.00 par common, now reads as FMIC Corporation, $1.00 par common; NFF 
C°rPoration, $.10 par common, is renamed Orange-co., Inc., $.10 par common; 
^anscoritinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, $.50 par common, becomes Transco 
Com 
^Panics, Inc., $.50 par common, and Wetterau Foods, Inc., $1.00 par 
c°mmon, is changed to Wetterau, Inc., $1.00 par common. 
- 0 -

4 5 G 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FRANKLIN BANCORPORATION 
11/19/73 1 0 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Franklin Bancorporation, Somerset, New Jersey, has applied for 
t h e Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares of Franklin State Bank, 
F r a n k l i n Township, New Jersey ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e r S° n o t 0 submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^ 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
. none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
l°n in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U #S VC # 
l842(c)>. 
Applicant is a newly-formed company organized for the purpose 
of a c 
1/ 
firing Bank. 
Bank has deposits of approximately $274 million, and 
Petatea a total of 23 offices in four counties. (All banking data are as 
^ 
member 31, 1972, and reflect acquisitions through September 30, 1973.) 
transaction is merely a reorganization whereby the present shareholders 
vt U , 
nange their direct control of Bank to indirect control through Ap-
Pli<*nt 
A 
• Accordingly, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposal 
V U l n 
o t eliminate any existing or potential competition, increase con-
C*nt*atl 
ion of banking resources, or have an undue adverse effect on the 
°th*r b , 
°anks in the relevant area. 
* U n d e r the authority of New Jersey law, also operates four wholly-
^"banking subsidiaries that engage in activities at locations at 
b a n k m a y o p e r a t e * 
Those subsidiaries, which engage in commercial 
® activities, computer servicing activities, sale and service of 
the r 3 1 mortSages, and armored car services, do not require approval 
/,°?rd» pursuant to § 4(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act and 
of Regulation Y. 

4 5 7 0 
-2-
Bank has recently merged with First New Jersey Bank, Union, 
New Jersey,, which had been in less than satisfactory condition. The 
lnstant proposal will benefit the overall condition of the merged 
institution in that Applicant has committed to increase Bank's capital 
accounts, and improvements are expected regarding earnings and asset 
^ality. 
x n v i e w o f these expected benefits, the financial resources 
a U d f u t u r e prospects of Bank are viewed as consistent with approval. 
h e tnanagement, of Bank is satisfactory. The management, financial 
Edition, and future prospects of Applicant, which are dependent upon 
tho 
S e of Bank, appear generally satisfactory and are consistent with 
PProval of the application. There is no evidence in the record that 
the 
e banking needs of the communities to be served are not being met. 
Howevf* 
er» as a result of the flexibility afforded by the holding company 
c t ure and the improved financial condition of Bank resulting from the 
°P°aal, Applicant and Bank should be better able to expand and improve 
tlie^p 
services. Hence, considerations relating to the convenience and 
the communities to be served are consistent with approval. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
teaa0nH „ 
summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or 
(b> lat e r than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 

4 5 7 1 
-3-
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective November 14, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
f ° r t h i s a c t l o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
-unmer, Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
4 5 7 2 
c f c ^ T ^ . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
item No. 11 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
'11/19/73 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i n i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E ' 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 19, 1973 
AIR MAIL -_REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
^ -
. Mr. Mayo Sisler, Chairman 
Franklin Bancorporation 
, 030 Franklin Boulevard 
Somerset, New Jersey 08873 
Dear Mr. Sisler: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application filed pursuant to the Bank Holding Company 
Act of Franklin Bancorporation to become a bank holding company. 
^ 
Hie Board is aware that, in the main, the problems confront-
ing the Franklin State Bank are due to its merger with First New Jersey 
•-Bank which was in an unsatisfactory condition at the time of the merger. 
We look forward to improvements in this condition under the strength-
ened management of the merged institution. But at this time concern 
3 s still felt about asset quality, capital adequacy, earnings, debt 
liquidation and depth of management. The Board anticipates that prior 
to further expansion by Franklin Bancorporation bank management 
.» either will have completed the capital addition of $9 million in 
equity, or have firm binding commitments from underwriters or others 
vho may market the issue, and that improvements in the other areas 
Mentioned above will be satisfactory to the Federal Reserve System. 
Enclosed is material related to the Board's action. 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order relating 
t o the time within which the action herein approved is to be consum-
mated, advice of the fact of consummation should be given in writing 
t o the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
\ 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Enclosures 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4 5 7 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/19/73 ^ 
NBS FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
NBS Financial Corporation, Southfield, Michigan, a bank holding 
0lnPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
fQ 
B°ard approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
r e 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of National Bank of 
R°yal °ak> Royal Oak, Michigan ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
s°ns to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) 
the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
n°ne has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
ti0n J light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c))> : 
Applicant, the 24th largest of 42 bank holding companies 
ln ^ichio 
Asan, controls one bank, with aggregate deposits of approximately 
•*-ion, 
representing 0.4 per cent of the State's total deposits. 
A t
qui e i t. 
cion of Bank would increase Applicant's share of State deposits 
by 
n 
percentage points and would not significantly increase the con-
•»-0n of banking resources in the State. Upon consummation of the 
Pt0P°sed n 
acquisition, Applicant would become the 21st largest bank holding 
Pany in Michigan 
anking data are as of December 31, 1972. 

4 5 7 4 
-2' 
Bank ($45.6 million in deposits) is the 26th largest of 43 
banking organizations in the Detroit banking market (approximated by Wayne, 
°akland and Macomb Counties) and controls approximately 0.3 per cejt of the 
dePosits in that market. Applicant's sole subsidiary bank, National Bank of 
S°uthfield ("Southfield Bank"), is located 4-1/2 miles from the nearest office 
of fiank. Although the service areas of Southfield Bank and Bank are con-
ti8uous, only a slight overlap occurs. Bank draws 4.6 per cent of its total 
dePoslts from the service area of Southfield Bank and Southfield Bank 
av;s b u t 3.5 per cent of its total deposits from Bank's service area. 
the Board's judgment, consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
o t eliminate any meaningful existing competition between the two 
Moreover, the development of future competition between 
and Applicant's subsidiary bank appears unlikely. Michigan branch 
an^ing i a w g prohibit t>oth Bank and Southfield Bank from opening offices 
i n the 
be a 
other's service area. In addition, Applicant does not appear to 
likely candidate for de novo entry into Royal Oak. The Board concludes, 
therefm. 
u r e , that competitive considerations are consistent with approval of 
th° aPPlication. 
°f CaPltal 
As a one-bank holding company, Applicant also owns 100 per cent 
Corporation of Michigan, a mortgage and factoring company. How-
evet * this company is not yet actively engaged in business. Therefore, 
*sition of Bank would not, in the Board's judgment, have an adverse 
il*terf 
°e between Bank and Applicant's nonbanking subsidiary. 

4 5 7 5 
-2-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Sank, and of Applicant and its subsidiary bank are regarded as satis-
ctory. Considerations relating to banking factors are consistent with 
aPproval of this application. 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition will result in assuring 
0 Bank that Applicant will provide those activities for Bank now being per-
med informally. Although there is no evidence in the record to indicate 
that 
banking needs of the residents of Royal Oak area are not currently being 
» cne proposed affiliation will likely expand the range of services present-
y offered by Bank. Affiliation with Applicant should provide Bank greater 
8 to the Applicant's financial and managerial resources and thereby 
it to provide additional banking services to the residents of the 
^°yal o * area. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
the r 
community to be served are consistent with approval of the 
cation. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 
W°uld h 
D G in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
a*>ons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made 
(a) b 
0 r e the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
o 
G r °r (b) later than three months after the effective date of 

4 5 7 6 
-4. 
it. 
s Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 19, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ 
— 
®ritnm°tin8 f° r t h i s a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
m e r> Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. 

m
k
^
-
. 
f I: • • • \ "y ! uj * 
4 5 7 7 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 13 
11/19/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
O O A R O 
November 20, 1973 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell 
President 
federal Reserve Bank 
of Dallas 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
Relative to your letter of November 8, 1973, the Board 
of Governors interposes no objection to your proposal of a three 
per cent across-the-board salary adjustment to your employees, 
effective January 1, 1974. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Theordore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary 

4 5 7 S 
Item No. 14 
11/19/73 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BUCHER 
I agree with the Board's decisions allowing Mellon National 
Co*Poration to acquire Carruth Mortgage Corporation and Manufacturers 
to 
n ° V e r Corporation to acquire Citizens Mortgage Corporation; however, 
6 s e aPPlications confirm my view that the Board must proceed cautiously 
anc* that a completely unrestrictive acquisition and retention policy 
f Ay» mortgage banking is unjustified. In the mortgage banking industry 
ere are several factors which, if examined in each instance, may provide 
a Sood analytical foundation for approval or denial. This is the focus 
Of m 
my concurring statement. 
One of the fundamental issues to which the Board must address 
tself i n e a c h acquisition proposal is whether the consumer-home buyer 
D e better or worse off if approval is given. Serious questions can 
atio 
e as to whether the public benefits relating to operating efficiency, 
bet t" 
e r services, and lower cost, which are frequently ascribed to pro-
S e d affiliations of mortgage banking firms with bank holding companies, 
C o a significant degree, especially when larger firms are involved. 
The advocacy voiced by applicants may not reflect the actual probability 
of t h 
occurrence of the asserted benefits. Bank holding companies bear 
the buro 
e n °f demonstrating that their proposed nonbanking acquisition 
W 1 U h ave public benefits outweighing any adverse effects, Inasmuch as 
the b asic balancing test of § 4(c)(8) requires a showing of public bene-
^ S , rp, 
inis balancing test imposes a generally stricter competitive 
ra than those expressed in the antitrust laws. 

4 5 7 9 
- 2 -
Applicants also bear the burden of proof for any other assertions 
of fact or analysis expressed in applications. Many acquisitions have, to 
a greatet or lesser degree, adverse effects on existing or potential com-
petition. One major problem continually facing the Board in evaluating 
th 
e competitive impact of mortgage banking applications is a lack of complete 
^rket data. For example, this is often the case when attempting to deter-
mine the local market shares with respect to mortgage originations. Thus, 
j 
Would hope that applicants will become more conscious of this need and 
Win 
attempt to develop and provide as much of such data as possible so that 
aPPlications can be acted upon by the Board with full awareness of all factors 
televant to competitive considerations. 
The doctrine of potential competition is crucial to the analysis 
aPplications by holding companies with existing mortgage banking activi-
s* Given the ease of entry into mortgage banking, a holding company 
° r without an existing mortgage banking affiliate may exert a beneficial 
n^luence upon competitive conditions in a market by threat of entry. 
°Sraphic proximity, the size and scope of the bank holding company, and 
net*ation prospects for a market are key factors in assessing entry 
°kakilities. Thus, market extension acquisitions by large holding com-
Paniec? need careful analysis to avoid the unnecessary elimination of probable 
future 
e competition. Further, given the low entry barriers, de novo or 
othold entry should be favored as a procompetitive device irrespective 
Of tv 
size of the entering institution. 
Therefore, in my view, greater scrutiny should be given to the 
aition of the dominant mortgage banking firm in concentrated local 

4 5 8 0 
- 3 -
Markets by large bank holding companies which are presently in that market, 
0r in an adjacent market. I would also be particularly cautious in situa-
tions where, without strong countervailing factors, approval is sought of 
fcVi 
e acquisition by the largest bank holding companies in the nation of any 
of the remaining large national mortgage banking firms because of the possible 
questions of either undue concentration or aggregation of financial resources. 
T h e issue of aggregate concentration may be applicable particularly in cases 
^ e r e the combination of two large firms is proposed—even though they are 
not 
a p t -
dCtual or potential competitors. 
On the other hand, concern expressed over the prospect of the 
tinction of an independent mortgage banking industry is, at best, premature. 
More D r K 
Probably than not a two-tier industry structure will emerge consisting 
Of L , 
affiliated and nonaffiliated 
firms. Mortgage banking appears to be 
a t U r a l lV local business on the "origination side" of the business with 
lov f» Pital requirements and minimal economies of scale, but does require 
^ lea«5t-
one person highly knowledgeable in local real estate activities, 
the 
1. 
„ 
Lake-out side some contacts with secondary market buyers are neces— 
Sary, b 
u t the barriers to entry at this interface are not unsurmountable to 
the ag gressive entrepreneurs characteristic of this business. Once these 
businesa 
. 
relationships are established, unaffiliated local firms can probably 
°
Pe
*ate 
» °n balance, as efficiently as local firms with bank holding company 
affiliatl ions; and, for this reason, I cannot foresee them as becoming an 
species among financial institutions. Thus, in fulfilling the 
°bjective o f 
o r promoting competition in local markets, I see no need to construct 

4581 
- A -
a Policy specifically designed to protect independent firms. Providing 
alternative sources of mortgage funds to a consumer in his market is, in 
®y view, far more important than preserving individual firms or the 
character of an industry. 
Member 19, 1973 
