MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 12, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Amendment to Regulation Z, 
Truth in Lending. 

2 5 9 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 12, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 2/ 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. 01Connel1, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Henry, Assistant Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Ralph Smith, Economist, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
A report was presented by staff regarding recent developments 
in the foreign exchange markets. A discussion followed. 
Governor Bucher then joined the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco on July 5, 1973, of the rates on advances and discounts 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Pursuant to a recommendation in a memorandum of July 6, 1973, 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation, the Board unanimously 
L/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 
2/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

7/12/73 
-2-
approved an amendment to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, requiring 
creditors who do not provide rebates of the unearned portion of a 
finance charge upon prepayment in full of an instalment contract to 
disclose this fact to consumers. Copies of the press release 
announcing this action and of the amendment are attached under 
Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Berkshire 
Bancorp Inc., Pittsfield, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of Guaranty 
Bank & Trust Company, Worcester, Massachusetts, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the application 
of United Carolina Bancshares Corporation, Whiteville, North Carolina, 
to acquire shares of Prudential Credit Corporation of Sanford, Sanford, 
North Carolina, through its present subsidiary, First Credit Corporation, 
Shallotte, North Carolina. Governor Brimmer dissented from this action 
because the acquisition agreement contained a covenant not to compete. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A 
copy is attached under Item No. 3, along with a copy of Governor 
Brimmer's dissenting statement. 
The Board approved the applications of Southwest Company, 
Sidney, Iowa, (1) to become a bank holding company by acquiring shares 
of Fremont County Savings Bank, also of Sidney, and (2) to retain the 
assets of Pullman Insurance Agency, also of Sidney, which engages in 

7/12/73 
-2-
permissible insurance agency activities. Governor Brimmer dissented 
from the action with respect to the insurance agency retention because 
the proposal contemplated the use of a covenant not to compete. The 
Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting these decisions. A 
copy is attached under Item No. 4, along with a copy of Governor 
Brimmer's dissenting statement. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
Chicago Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire shares of AFSA 
Data Corporation, Hawthorne, California, and authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Marine 
Bancorporation, Seattle, Washington, to acquire shares of Globe 
Finance Co. of Opportunity, Inc., Opportunity, Washington, and 
authorized issuance of an order in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Governor Daane then withdrew from the meeting, and the following 
entered the room: 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 

7/12/73 
-2-
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General Counsel 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Garwood, Adviser, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Waage of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Mr. Burstein of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Mrs. Semia and Miss Brown, Technical Assistants, Office 
of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Moody Foundation. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting its approval, on June 20, 1973, of the application of 
The Moody Foundation, Galveston, Texas, for an exemption from the 
provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act relating to prohibitions 
against nonbanking activities and acquisitions. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 7. 
Collateral requirements of section 23A. Bank of Virginia, 
Richmond, Virginia, a State member bank and a subsidiary of Bank of 
Virginia Company, also of Richmond, had raised a question through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond whether FHA mortgages were "obligations 
of the United States Government" for purposes of the collateral require-
ments of section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. In a memorandum of 

fo* >«J / 
7/12/73 
-5-
July 10, 1973, the Legal Division set forth reasons for its recommen-
dation that the Board conclude that FHA mortgages are not obligations 
of the United States for such purposes. A draft letter to the Reserve 
Bank was attached. 
The Legal Division's recommendation was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter so notifying the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
is attached as Item No. 8. 
Republic National Bank of Dallas. On June 28, 1973, the 
Board determined that Republic National Bank of Dallas, a bank holding 
company and the largest bank in the Dallas banking market, was authorized 
to continue to engage in the activities of its six direct nonbanking 
subsidiaries other than the Howard Corporation (a trusteed subsidiary) 
under the "grandfather provisions" of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Announcement of that action had been held in abeyance, however, pending 
response by the bank to inquiries regarding minority interests held 
through Howard Corporation in 21 banks, including 18 banks in the 
Dallas SMSA. In view of a pending application for acquisition of 
Republic National Bank by a new holding company, the Board was concerned 
regarding the possible impact on banking concentration in the Dallas 
market if additional shares of these minority interests were acquired 
and the staff had been requested to ascertain from Republic National 
Bank which of these interests the new holding company intended to 
divest and which it intended to increase. 

2598 
7/12/73 
-2-
In a memorandum of July 6, 1973, Mr. Leavitt reported that 
representatives of Republic National Bank had indicated that the 
bank did not control the banks in which minority interests were 
held; that Republic National's preferred position was that the new 
holding company would make applications within two years for those 
minority-owned banks in the Dallas market that it wished to acquire 
and would agree to dispose of the rest within four years; that this 
program might be accelerated; and that, if required, it would make 
an attempt to designate those banks it hoped to acquire and those 
it probably would divest. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated a general view that 
in the absence of a statement by Republic National Bank regarding 
its intentions with respect to the minority interests in banks held 
by Howard Corporation, the Board should not reach any determination 
regarding the bank's entitlement to grandfather privileges with respect 
to Howard Corporation. 
It was understood that Republic National Bank 
would be informed of the Board's position in this regard. 
Issuance 
of the determination regarding the six direct nonbanking subsidiaries 
was authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 9. A letter was sent 
to Republic National Bank in the form attached as Item No. 10. 
Clearing agencies and transfer agents. The Subcommittee on 
Securities of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 

*>trcKi 
7/12/73 
-7-
Affairs had requested the Board's comments on S. 2058, a bill to amend 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to provide for the regulation 
of clearing agencies and transfer agents. With a memorandum of July 10, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation submitted a draft 
reply that would take substantially the same position as the Board 
had taken in 1972 with respect to a substantially similar bill. The 
draft would endorse the bill as encompassing a sound administrative 
approach to the regulation of clearing agencies and transfer agents, 
since it would give the Securities and Exchange Commission authority 
to write regulations for the industry but leave enforcement and 
supervisory authority over banking institutions with the Federal bank 
supervisory agencies. The memorandum noted, however, that President 
Hayes and First Vice President Debs of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York felt strongly that the Board should have complete regulatory 
authority over clearing agencies that are members of the Federal 
Reserve System. They believed that since all existing depositories 
had been or were being chartered as limited purpose trust companies 
under State banking laws and were expected to apply for membership 
in the Federal Reserve System, any additional regulatory authority 
should more properly be vested in the Federal Reserve Board. The Banking 
and Securities Industry Committee took a similar view. 
In a memorandum of July 11, 1973, Governor Sheehan commented 
on the position advocated by the New York Reserve Bank and the Banking 

2600 
7/12/73 
-2-
and Securities Industry Committee, and indicated that he had suggested 
that the New York Reserve Bank be represented at today's meeting. 
After staff presentations that included comments by Mr. Waage 
of the New York Reserve Bank, expressions by members of the Board 
indicated that Governors Sheehan and Bucher believed that the rule 
Siting authority should be placed with the Board, while Governors 
Mitchell, Brimmer, and Holland were willing to accept the approach 
Proposed by the staff. However, it was suggested that, although that 
approach would contemplate that the Securities and Exchange Commission 
would write the regulations in consultation with the Federal bank 
supervisory agencies, it might be well to provide in the legislation 
for the concurrence of the appropriate bank supervisory agency prior 
to the adoption of any rule by the Securities and Exchange Commission 
applying to any clearing agency that is a bank. During the discussion, 
a n alternative draft of language for the letter was distributed to 
reflect the views that had been expressed, and further suggestions for 
revisions were made. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board approved, Governor 
sheehan dissenting, the sending of a letter in the form attached as 
Xtem_No. 11. 
First City Bancorporation of Texas. At the meeting on July 10, 
l9?3, the Board deferred action on the application of First City Bancorpo-
ration of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of the successor 
b y merger to Northline. State Bank, also of Houston, pending exploration 

7/12/73 
-2-
of questions raised by Governor Bucher. The Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, which had recommended approval in a memorandum of 
June 22, provided additional information on the points in question in 
a memorandum of July 11. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
j^tem No. 12. 
Affiliated Bankshares of Colorado. In a memorandum of July 11, 
1973, the staff recommended approval of the application of Affiliated 
Bankshares of Colorado, Inc., Boulder, Colorado, to merge with First 
Colorado Bankshares, Inc., Littleton, Colorado. 
After discussion, the application was approved, Governor Brimmer 
dissenting on the grounds that the proposed acquisition would be anticompet-
itive. - It was understood that an order to implement this decision would 
b e prepared for the Board's consideration, and that a statement reflecting 
Governor Brimmer's dissent also would be prepared. 
Northwest Bancorporation. In a memorandum of July 10, 1973, 
the staff recommended conditional approval of the application of Northwest 
Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire shares of T. G. Evensen & 
Associates, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, the proposed conditions being 
contained in a memorandum of July 5 from the Legal Division. The Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had recommended denial. 
Discussion at today's meeting included comments by Mr. Burstein 
o f the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. Ensuing expressions of view 

2602 
7/12/73 
-10-
disclosed divergent inclinations among members of the Board present, 
and action was therefore deferred until a time when additional members 
could participate. 
In a memorandum of July 2, 1973, the staff recommended approval 
of the application of Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
to acquire shares of Bettendorf Bank and Trust Company, Bettendorf, Iowa. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order to implement this decision would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
In a memorandum of July 2, 1973, the staff recommended approval 
of the application of Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
to acquire shares of Security State Bank, Keokuk, Iowa. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order to implement this decision would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
Truth in Lending Act amendments. Senator Proxmire had requested 
the Board's views on proposed floor amendments to pending legislation 
comprising the "Fair Credit Billing Act" and other additions to the 
Truth in Lending Act. With a memorandum of July 11, 1973, the Division 
°f Supervision and Regulation submitted a draft reply. Additional passages 
suggested for incorporation into the letter were distributed at today's 
meeting. 
The draft letter included a paragraph noting that it was now 
Proposed that the Board write regulations dealing with sex discrimination 

2603 
7/12/73 
-2-
in the granting of credit. The draft expressed the view that the 
question whether or not discrimination may have occurred in an 
individual extension of credit might be handled more appropriately by 
judicial determination than by general rule writing. During discussion 
at today's meeting, Governor Brimmer took exception to that passage, 
expressing the view that instead of leaving the matter to the courts, 
responsibility should be assigned to some Government agency as had been 
done with respect to other provisions of the Truth in Lending Act. 
After discussion, the letter was approved in the form attached 
a S lte_m No. 13. 
Restrictions on loans to affiliates. In a memorandum of July 5, 
the Legal Division explored the question whether, and in what 
eircumstances, a member bank may participate in (or purchase), without 
recourse, mortgage loans made or acquired by its mortgage banking affiliate 
without observance of the limitations and collateral requirements on loans 
t o affiliates set forth in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. Attached 
to the memorandum was a draft interpretation, which the Division recommended 
b e approved by the Board in principle and referred to the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation before adoption. 
Discussion included a suggestion by Governor Holland that it 
w°uld be helpful to have an analysis of the proposed position from 
a n economic point of view. Action was therefore deferred pending 
submission of such an analysis. 

£604 
7/12/73 
-12-
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation. Pursuant 
to the recommendation of the Division of Supervision and Regulation in 
memoranda of June 4 and July 11, 1973, the Board unanimously approved 
the application of First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, for prior conditional approval to acquire indirectly 
additional small loan companies in Puerto Rico. The Board also unanimously 
approved the sending of a letter to the Secretary of the Treasury of 
Puerto Rico, as suggested by the staff, responding to his adverse views 
°n the proposed acquisitions as expressed in a letter to Governor Brimmer 
an<l a subsequent telephone conversation. Attached as Items 14 and 15 are 
copies of the letter sent to First National City Overseas Investment 
Corporation and of the letter sent to the Secretary of the Treasury 
°f Puerto Rico. 
Reports of income and of condition. On March 13, 1973, the Board 
approved procedures for making available to the public annual Reports 
o f Income and quarterly Reports of Condition of State member banks. 
Although it was understood that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
Planned to notify insured nonmember banks of specific requests for their 
rePorts and that the Comptroller of the Currency would furnish any national 
bank, upon its request, with a listing of requests for its reports during 
a given period, the Board had decided against a notification policy. In a 
memorandum of July 11, 1973, the Office of the Secretary cited circumstances 
l n support of its recommendation that the Board reconsider the earlier 

2605 
7/12/73 
-13-
notification decision and establish a practice of notifying State member 
banks routinely each time their reports are requested specifically by 
name of bank. If this plan were approved, it would be expected that 
the Federal Reserve Banks would follow the same procedure with respect 
to specific requests made directly to them. A draft letter to the 
Reserve Banks in this regard was attached. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation. A copy of 
the letter sent to the Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 16. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Regulation Q. Subsequent to the meeting, available members of 
the Board reviewed and approved an interpretation of Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits, relating to the recent amendment regarding penalties 
for withdrawal of time deposits before maturity. A copy of the press 
release containing the interpretation is attached as Item No. 17. 

Item No. 1 
7/12/73 
* 
PQV • 
r immediate release. 
July 13, 1973 
Hie Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today announced 
n an^endment to its Regulation Z -- Truth in Lending -- regarding disclosure 
of nearned finance charge rebates. 
The new rule, proposed for comment by the Boai'd on May 3, goes into 
GffGct January 1, 1974. 
It requires creditors who do not provide rebates of the unearned 
0 n of a finance charge in the event of prepayment in full of an instal-
ment 
c°ntract to disclose this fact to consumers on the Truth-in-Lending 
form. 
A copy of the. amendment is attached. 

2607 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
• 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Reg. Z) 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
Disclosure of Rebates of Finance Charges 
1. Effective January 1, 1974, § 226.8(b)(7) is amended to 
read as set forth below. The amendment will require creditors who do 
Tl0t grant rebates of the unearned portion of a finance charge upon 
Prepayment of a precomputed instalment contract to disclose this 
^act on the Truth in Lending disclosure form. For example, if the 
cash price of an item is $100 and the finance charge for one year is 
' the consumer normally will sign an obligation to pay $ J 20 ever 
a year in "12 monthly instalments cf $10 each. If the consumer repays 
obligation in full before maturity, he may or may not receive a 
r^bat;e. of any unearned portion of the finance charge. The Regulation 
Cu*rently requires those creditors who make rebates to identify the 
ebate method. This amendment requires creditors who do not make 
fob 
ates to disclose that fact to consumers in advance of their becoming 
iigate.d on credit contracts. 
ft 
8-.-CREDIT OTHER THAN OPEN END--SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
* 
(b) Disclosures in sale and non-sale credit. * * * 

2608 
(7) Identification of the method of computing any unearned 
P°rtion of the finance charge in the event of prepayment in full of an 
ligation 
which includes preccmputed finance charges and a statement of 
amount or method of computation of any charge that may be deducted 
from the amount of any rebate of such unearned finance charge that will 
ke credited to an obligation or refunded to the customer. If the credit 
c°ntract does not provide for any rebate of unearned finance charges upon 
Prepayment in full, this fact shall be disclosed. 
2. This amendment was promulgated pursuant to § 105 of the 
ruth i n Lending Act (15 U.S.C. § 1604). Notice of proposed rule making 
V a s Published on May 3, 1973 (38 Fed. Ren. 12240). After consideration 
all relevant matter submitted by interested parties, two minor changes 
to § 226.8(b)(7). 
3. The amendment is designed to alert consumers, before they 
Ccome obligated on an instalment contract, if they will not receive a 
l°kate of the unearned portion of the finance charge should they prepay 
tb °kiigation before its stated maturity. 
4. Section 226.8(b)(7) has been altered from its proposed 
t 0 clarify that it applies only to rebates provided in the event 
tha^ 
< , 
^n obligation is prepaid in full__and does not require disclosure 
*ating to partial prepayment of obligations. It has also been clarified 
to x*ofi 
u-ect the fact that it only relates to the rebate of the "unearned" 
P°*tJor> r P 
. 
"vn ot a finance charge. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 12, 1973, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberp; 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

2609 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
7/12/73 
BERKSHIRE BANCORP INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Berkshire Bancorp Inc., Pittsfield, Massachusetts, a bank 
ruling company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(le 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of Guaranty Bank & Trust Company, 
tester, Massachusetts ("Guaranty Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accord-
n°G V i t h § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views 
expired, and the Board has considered the application and all 
c°mments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
1/ 
Applicant,- the 21st largest commercial banking organization 
Massachusetts, c o n trols one bank, Berkshire Bank & Trust Company 
Be*kshire Bank"), with deposits of about $65 million, representing 
Pproximately 0.6 per cent of total bank deposits in the S t a t e d 
y Bank is the 10th largest banking organization in the State 
ePosits of $176 million, accounting for 1.6 per cent of total 
statewide 
u e commercial bank deposits. Consummation of the proposal 
— - — • — -
Investo 
h a s P e n d i n 8 a section 4(c)(8) application to retain 0-T-C 
Nev 
Service Corporation, Pittsfield, Massachusetts and New York, 
5t°ck J % a 
c o m P a n y engaged in making loans to investors secured by 
2/ E x c
 1 limited marketability. 
a s otherwise indicated, banking data are as of June 30, 1972, 
the tJ 
e c t b a n k holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by 
a ™ through May 31, 1973. 

2610 
-2-
^cnild result In Applicant controlling 2.2 per cent o^total commercial 
b a n k ^posits in Massachusetts, and it would become the eighth largest 
inking organization and bank holding company in the State. Consummation 
° f t h e transaction would not result in a significant increase in the 
Dt*centration of banking resources in Massachusetts. 
Guaranty Bank is the second largest of seven banks competing 
in t h e w°rcester SMSA,^ with about 24 per cent of market deposits. 
The •largest bank in the market, Worcester County National Bank, a sub-
idiav* 
-
cy Of the State's seventh largest commercial banking organization, 
° n t r o l s approximately 47 per cent of market dpeosits. The State's 
ingest banking organization also controls a subsidiary in the 
Consummation of the proposal would eliminate no significant 
n8 competition between Berkshire Bank and Guaranty Bank. Since 
the bank 
are 65 miles apart, with three counties and numerous banks 
Evening and in view of Massachusetts' restrictive branching laws, 
it i 8 
unlikely that competition between Berkshire Bank and Guaranty 
°nld develop in the future. Consummation of the proposal would 
Have n 
' 
0 adverse effects on existing or potential competition and should 
bg 
-competitive by creating an alternative to the larger Boston based 
ho 
Atlg companies. 
for the Worcester SMSA market are as of-June 30, 1970. 

3 
2611 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and prospects 
Applicant, its subsidiary bank, and Guaranty Bank, are regarded as 
Satisfactory and consistent with approval. Both banks' customers should 
benefit from the affiliation as a result of the capability to offer 
^creased services in the respective service areas, which are presently 
^available from the banks in view of their limited resources. It is 
4,1 
e Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition is in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
VL 
6 reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
t h l s °*der or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
* this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
B°ard, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ effective July 16, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL) 
j^Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
«nmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman 

2612 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
7/12/73 
UNITED CAROLINA BANCSHARES CORPORATION 
°rder Approving Acquisition of Prudential Credit Corporation of Sanford 
United Carolina Bancshares Corporation, Whiteville, North 
Carolina, a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
C°ttpany Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under 5 4(c)(8) 
o f the Act and g 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire-
directly through its wholly-owned subsidiary, First Credit Corporation, 
S h aUotte, North Carolina ("First Credit"), all of the assets of Prudential 
Credit Corporation of Sanford, Sanford, North Carolina ("Prudential"). 
rudential is a consumer finance company that engages in the activities 
^ making loans with a cash advance of $900 or less and acting as agent 
^ t h respect to credit life and accident and health insurance directly 
e^ated to an extension of credit. Such activities have been determined 
by 
Board to be closely related to the business of banking 
(l2 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (9)(ii)(a)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
rsons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
au-Ly published (38 Federal Register 14799). The time for filing 
c nts and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in North . 
a r°Una, controls three banks with aggregate deposits of $283 million, 

2613 
rePresenting 2.8 percent of the total deposits of commercial banks in 
State.!/ Applicant also controls four nonbanking subsidiaries one of 
Which 17-f 
i'irst Credit, is presently engaged in consumer finance company 
ct3-vities. First Credit (total assets of $769 thousand) is licensed under 
State ln 
^aw to make consumer loans with cash advances not exceeding $900. 
°Perates as a direct subsidiary of Applicant with offices in Shallotte 
a n d Wilmington, North Carolina.!/ 
Prudential (with total assets of $363 thousand) is a consumer 
^itiance company doing business through two offices located in Sanford, 
^°rth c arolina. Most of Prudential's business is derived from Lee County, 
arolina, although a slight amount of business is obtained from the 
^joining counties. Four other finance companies compete in the. 
Sarif0r' 
Q market; Prudential controls but 12 percent of the combined total 
assets of 
the finance companies in this market. 
Neither Applicant's banking subsidiaries nor First Credit 
located in the Sanford area, and it does not appear that 
ation of this transaction will eliminate any present competition. 
t he distance involved between Applicant's subsidiaries and 
^dentiai 
l> it is doubtful that any future competition will be foreclosed. 
Percent f 1 ^ a r e a G ° f D e c e : n b e r 31> 1 9 7 2» and do not include Applicant's 
®ank of 
i n t e rest in a recently opened de novo bank, Capitol National 
Ulster ,!! i g h' 
S e e B o a r d 0 r d e r of October 24, 1972, 37 Federal 
^3296. 
f r 0 m Appi?rd °y d e r o f November 20, 1972, approving transfer of First Credit 
^ icant's subsidiary bank to Applicant, (37 Federal Register 25204). 

-3-
2614 
Moreover, the presence of four other finance companies operating in Sanford 
^kes de novo entry into the market unlikely. 
Prudential also sells credit life insurance and accident and 
ksalth insurance directly related to the loans it originates. Due to the 
iitnited nature of its insurance activities, it does not appear that 
applicant's acquisition of Prudential's insurance activities would have 
^ significant effect on either existing or potential competition. 
The financial condition of Applicant is satisfactory, but 
t h e capital structure of First Credit is still inadequate. All of its 
however, is due to Applicant which has adequate resources to manage 
Moreover, First Credit has operated at a profit for the past two 
y^arg• a J , 
» and tnis acquisition represents an attempt by Applicant to strengthen 
financial condition and enhance the prospects of First Credit. Con-
erations relating to the financial and managerial resources of Applicant 
arid 
, 
s subsidiaries are consistent with approval of the application. 
Affiliation of Prudential with First Credit will likely increase 
Potential volume of loanable funds available to the public and should 
Prudential to compete more effectively with other finance companies. 
G e n t l y , factors relating to convenience and needs are consistent 
W l t h aPproval. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
the r e c 
c°rd, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
int*rest F 
ractors the Board is required to consider under 5 4(c)(0) 

2615 
-4-
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^termination is subject to the conditions set forth in 5 225.4(c) 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
°r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its sub-
diaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the pro-
t o n s and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
Ss^ed thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,1/ effective July 13, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B, Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
She t^1*8 
t*1*3 action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
fcw an> Bucher, and Holland. Voting against this action: Governor 
er« 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

2616 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I would disapprove the application by United Carolina Bancshares 
to 
acquire Prudential Credit Corporation. My decision is based on the 
0venant not to compete contained in the acquisition agreement, which 
E v e n t s Prudential's two owners from engaging in the finance company 
Usiness within a radius of 50 miles for a period of five years. For reasons 
stated more fully in my dissent to the Board's Order of April 26, 1973, 
Pptoving the acquisition by Orbanco, Inc., of Far West Security Company, 
it is 
rcy view that such covenants are inconsistent with the promotion of 
mPetition as required by the Bank Holding Company Act and should not be 
Sanctioned by the Board. 
The Board has a statutory responsibility to determine whether an 
^isition can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public. 
Plainly stated statutory responsibility, I cannot perceive how 
Public interest is served by approving agreements which, by their very 
t\atuxe 
» retard the development of competition and restrict entry into a 
busine 
i 
by individuals who should be free to compete if they so desire. 
* v°uid t-t 
_ 
> tnerefore, deny this application as contrary to public interest. 
Ju*y i3, 1973 

2617 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
7/12/73 
SOUTHWEST COMPANY 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Retention of Insurance Agency Activities. 
Southwest Company, Sidney, Iowa, has a p p l i e d for the Board's 
approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation 
o f a bank holding company through acquisition of 85.1 per cent or more 
o f the voting shares of Fremont County Savings Bank, Sidney, Iowa ("Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's approval 
ur*er § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of 
E l a t i o n Y to continue to engage in certain permissible insurance agency 
C i t i e s , to be conducted in Sidney, Iowa (population of less than 2,000), 
t h r°u Sh the retention of Pullman Insurance Agency, Sidney, Iowa ("Agency"). 
operation by a bank holding company of a general insurance agency in 
a communit:y with a population not exceeding 5,000 is an activity that the 
B°ard has previously determined to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 
225%4(a)(9)(iii)(a)). 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in accordance 
sections 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
has expired. The Board has c o n s i d e r e d the applications and all 
C 0^ents received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act, 
arid the considerations specified in section 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant was o r g a n i z e d in October 1972, for the principal 
PurPose of becoming a bank holding company through acquisition of Bank, 
applicant's sole business activity to date has been the acquisition of 

2618 
-2-
the building presently occupied by Bank and the operation of Agency as 
a subsidiary of Applicant. 
Bank ($8.1 million in deposits) is the only bank in Sidney, 
a rural community. Bank controls 32.4 per cent of the total deposits 
n e i d by the seven banks in Fremont County and, on that basis, is the 
largest bank in the countyAcquisition of Bank by Applicant would 
n o t eliminate any existing competition, have an undue adverse effect 
11 a<*y other 
bank in the county, nor preclude the establishment of new 
bar*s in the area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
* A p p l i c a n t and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval, 
^though Applicant will incur considerable debt in acquiring Bank, 
8 income from Bank and Agency will provide sufficient revenue to 
rvice the debt adequately.) Applicant proposes to increase Bank's 
§ricultural and commercial loans in the primary service area through a 
r e aggressive lending policyJJ Accordingly, considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the community to be served, with respect 
to the 
acquisition of Bank, are consistent with approval of the applica-
tion 
t*. 
J-t is the Board's judgment that consummation of the transaction 
b e in the public interest and that the application to acquire Bank 
S h° U I d be approved. 
Agency operates a general insurance agency business out of an 
aajacent to Bank and is one of four insurance agencies in Sidney. 
^ ^ P ^ n k i n g data are as of June 30, 1972. 
e loan-to-deposit ratio (as of October 14, 1972) was 32.9 per cent. 

2G19 
-3-
Agency and Bank have been associated and under common ownership for a 
dumber of years. Retention of Applicant's insurance activities would 
er*able Bank's customers to enjoy the continued convenience of obtaining 
bar*king and insurance activities in conjunction with each other. There 
ig n 
n o evidence in the record indicating consummation of the proposal 
Would result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, 
C o^licts of interest, unsound banking practices or other adverse effects 
the public interest. On the basis of the foregoing and other facts 
Elected in the record, the Board has determined that the considerations 
acting the competitive factors under section 3(c) of the Act and the 
al&nce of the public interest factors the Board must consider under 
Section 4(c)(8) in permitting a holding company to engage in an activity 
basis that it is closely related to banking both favor approval 
^ e Appiicant's proposal. 
Accordingly, the applications are approved for the reasons 
nttnarized above. The acquisition of Bank shall not be consummated 
the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
°rder, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by th » 
e Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority, 
detp • 
ermination as to Agency's activities is subject to the Board's 
a u tWitx, . 
to require reports by, and make examinations of, holding com-
piles an<l their subsidiaries and to require such modification or 
( a ) before 
thts 

2620 
-4-
temination of the activities of a holding company or any of its sub-
si<liaries a s the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
°*ders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors^ effective July 17, 1973, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
[SEAL] 
VotiPPr°Va5' ° f acq^isition of Fremont County Savings Bank, Sidney, Iowa. 
Bri n § f° r t h i s action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
BurrT^' S h e e h a n > Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman 
An 
V 0 t l ^ 1 ° f r e t e n t i o n o f Pullman Insurance Agency, Sidney, Iowa. 
sheeh§ f° r t h i s a c t i o n : 
v i c e Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Bri
 
a n* Bucher, and Holland. Voting against this action: Governor 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

2621 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I would deny the application by Southwest Company to retain 
Oilman Insurance Agency. My decision is based on the existence of a 
c°venant not to compete which prevents a principal executive (President 
o f Bank) and shareholder of Applicant from engaging in the insurance 
a8ency business within Fremont County for a three-year period following 
hig 
s leaving the employ of Applicant or any of its subsidiaries. For 
easons stated more fully in my dissents to the application of Orbanco, 
Inc 
•» co acquire Far West Security Company (59 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
369 (1973)), and the application of CBT Corporation to acquire General 
sc°unt Corporation (59 Federal Reserve Bulletin 471 (1973)), it is my 
°n that such covenants do not serve to promote competition as required 
t h e B a n k Holding Company Act and should not be sanctioned by the Board. 
Under the provisions of 5 4(c)(8), the Board is required to 
er^ine whether an acquisition of a nonbanking company can reasonably 
be e*Pected to produce benefits to the public that outweigh possible 
ftdvpy* 
S e effects. In view of this responsibility, I would deny this 
P l l c Q t i o n as contrary to the public interest. 
I?, 1973 

26 22 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
7/12/73 
FIRST CHICAGO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of AFSA Data Corporation 
First Chicago Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, a bank holding 
°mPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f o r the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
f the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of AFSA 
a t a CorP°ration9 Hawthorne, California ("AFSA"), a company that engages in 
activity of servicing student loans and other extensions of credit. 
activity has been determined by the Board to be closely related to 
t h e ^siness of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(3)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Petg0n s to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
j 
Quly published (38 Federal Register 13062). The time for filing 
CommentR and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls one banking subsidiary, The First National 
Chicago ("Bank"), which is the second largest bank in Chicago 
arid 
B*nk o f 
l n the State of Illinois controlling deposits of $5.2 billion, 
approximately 
13 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
l n t h e State. 
(All banking data are>as of June 30, 1972.) 
APPliCant also has several nonbanking subsidiaries, including First Chicago 
U*t V e r s i 
ty Finance Corporation ("University Finance") which has been granted 
^ I s s i o r T 7 
n 
to make or acquire, for its own account or for the account of 
a u thori^ S S i o n Slanted" by "Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago under delegated 
^ on January 1, 1973. 

2623 
-2-
others, loans and other extensions of credit primarily related to the 
fin 
ancing of post secondary education, and servicing such loans or 
tensions of credit. 
AFSA was incorporated in August, 1967, in California, to con-
U C t b u s iness as a servicer of student loans. AFSA has total assets of 
>000, and presently services a loan portfolio of approximately 141,000 
c°unts in 19 states, although almost 70 per cent of the accounts are 
in three states, California, New York and Pennsylvania. 
Corporate 
^quarters are located in Hawthorne, California, and a service office 
ls Seated in New York City, New York. 
Although University Finance was granted permission to engage 
in the 
servicing of loans or extensions of credit, Applicant has stated 
in this 
aPplication that University Finance would not develop the capability 
to servi 
ice student loans but would subcontract this servicing to an agent. 
this 
aPplication is approved, Applicant intends that AFSA be the recipient 
^^ ttlOst n f 
t. 
o r the servicing business obtained by University Finance. Although 
Batik Provides servicing for its student loan accounts, it cannot be con-
^nk' 
servicing operations are performed manually and solely for its own 
^CCoun t-
s» whereas other student loan servicers are highlv computerized. Ae-
£iy» consummation of the acquisition would not appear to have a signi-
fiCant effeet on existing competition. Applicant could enter the student 
siderec] a significant competitor in the student'loan servicing field since 

2624 
-3-
*°atl servicing business de novo, and thus, Applicant's acquisition of AFSA 
C° U l d b e considered an adverse factor. However, this situation is mitigated 
V 
the low barriers to entry in this activity and the numerous servicers 
a l r e a dy i n the field, including Federally Insured Student Loan (FISL) lenders, 
ducational institutions, regional services, and local and regional data 
pr°cessing companies. Further, AFSA is in need of additional capital, and 
PProval of the acquisition would improve AFSA's competitive capability 
~a~vis other national servicing organizations which are affiliated with 
nancial institutions. The Board concludes that the competitive considerations 
atg 
°nslstent with, and the public Interest factors lend some weight to, 
a P P t 0 V a l 
the application. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would result in undue concentration of resources, 
Un£ait 
competition, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, or 
° t h e r adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
l n the 
a 
ecord, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
intere3t f 
ractors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
f av 
°table. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
erinination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) 
Elation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
nation of the activities of a holding company or any of Its 

2625 
-4-
s^bsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Pulsions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
isaued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
^rimm 
f o r t h i s action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
S h e e h a n » B u c h e r » and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman 

2626 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
7/12/73 
MARINE BANCORPORATION 
°rder Approving Acquisition of Globe Finance Co. of Opportunity, Inc. 
Marine Bancorporation, a bank holding company within the meaning 
0 f tl*e Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval, 
Un<ter section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(1) of the Board's Regula-
t i o n 
to acquire indirectly 90 per cent of the outstanding small 
l° a n accounts, together with furniture and equipment of Globe Finance Co. 
0 f Opportunity, Inc., Opportunity, Washington ("Globe Finance"), through 
Applicant's 100 per cent owned subsidiary, Commerce Credit Corporation, 
Seattle, Washington. The proposed subsidiary would engage in the activity 
o f taking small secured and unsecured loans for a period not in excess 
25-1/2 months, subject to restrictions and limitations specified in 
t h e Small Loan Act of the State of Washington.!/ 
Such activity has been 
o 
etcrmined by the Board to be closely related to the business of banking 
( 1 2 C F * 225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P G rso n a to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
b e e n d uly published (38 Federal Register 12334). The time for filing 
0rnments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls one bank, The National Bank of Commerce 
°f Seattle> Seattle, Washington 
("Commerce Bank"), with nggregnte deposits 
Of A 
billion, representing approximately 20 per cent of the total 
ep°sits in commercial banks in Washington.H 
Commerce Bank 
2/ ^ a P t e r 31.08 Revised Code of Washington. 
11 banking data are as December 31, 1972. 

-2- 
: 26 
is the second largest bank in the State. 
Applicant p r o p o s e s t o a c q u i r e Globe Finance t h r o u g h Commerce 
Credit Company, i t s w h o l l y - o w n e d 
n o n b a n k i n g 
s u b s i d i a r y e s t a b l i s h e d 
i n 
l 9 ? 2 a n d e n g a g e d 
i n s m a l l c o n s u m e r l o a n s a n d s e c o n d m o r t g a g e 
l e n d i n g . 
G l o b e Finance h a s n e t a s s e t s o f $137,000 a n d o p e r a t e , a s m a l l l o a n 
b u s i -
e s in t h e s u b u r b a n a r e a o f Opportunity, Washington, s e r v i n g o n l y a 
P o r t i o n o f t h e Spokane market. The s a l e s o f f i c e o f Globe Finance i s 
S e a t e d 
s i x m i l e s e a s t o f d o w n t o w n Spokane. Commerce Credit Company 
o p e r a t e s n o o f f i c e s i n e a s t e r n Washington a n d c o n s u m m a t i o n o f 
t h i s 
P r o p o s a l w o u l d e l i m i n a t e n o d i r e c t c o m p e t i t i o n . 
There i s a 
s t r o n g 
P o s s i b i l i t y that Applicant m a y s o o n o p e n o f f i c e s , a n d ^ c o m p e t e 
i n 
t h e 
c ° n s u m e r l o a n market i n t h e e a s t e r n Washington a r e a . 
However, t h e 
o p e r a t i o n s o f Globe Finance a r e s m a l l i n c o m p a r i s o n w i t h 
t h e 
l a r g e 
S p o k a n e m a r k e t w h i c h is s e r v e d b y s e v e n t e e n c o m p a n i e s 
i n c l u d i n g 
several large national corporations. Furthermore, a sister corporate 
°rganization to Globe Finance operates two other offices in the 
S p o k a n e area and thus the number of alternative consumer lenders 
i n S p o k a n e will not be r e d u c e d by the present application. 
In terms 
o f the overall m a r k e t , the a c q u i s i t i o n of the assets of Globe Finance 
b y Commerce Credit Company w o u l d h a v e no significant adverse effects 
0 n existing or potential competition w i t h i n the m a r k e t , and the 
fioard ft n d s that the competitive issues are consistent w i t h approval 
0 f the application. 
I ^ T h T c o m m e r c e Bank has received regulatory approval to merge Washing 
t 0 * T r u s t Bank, Spokane, Washington, into itself. That merger has been 
*eferred pending ultimate resolution of a suit brought by the United 
ates Department of Justice challenging that merger, which the Depart-
m e nt lost in the trial court and has now appealed to the Supreme Court. 

: 26 
-3-
It appears that the proposed acquisition would not result in 
any undue concentration of resources, conflicts of interests, unsound 
banking practices, or any other adverse effects on the public interest, 
furthermore the proposed acquisition would serve the public, since it 
w°uld provide for the entry into the subject market of a company with 
heater financial resources than are presently possessed by Globe 
Finance, thereby resulting in greater potential availability of consumer 
cr*dit for local residents. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
i n the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^termination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modifi-
Cation or termination of the activities of a holding company or any 
o f its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
Wlth the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
an<1 orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
"j/. voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane: 
immer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
airmatx Burns. 

2629 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
7/12/73 
THS i EJODY FOUNDATION 
Order Approving Exemption of Nonbanking Activities 
of Bank Holding Company 
The Moody Foundation, Calveston, Texas, a bank holding company 
he meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act by virtue of ownership 
of 
Per cent of the voting shares of the Moody National Bank of Galveston, 
Galv 
eston, Texas, has appliad to the Board of Governors, pursuant to sec-
n 
of the Act (12 U.S.Co 1843(d)), for an exemption from the pro-
hibition* 
ot section 4 of the Act (relating to nonbanking activities of, and 
quisitions by, a bank holding company). 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Agister o 
r on December 12, 1972 (37 Federal Register 26473), providing an 
°Pportuni-
ty for interested persons to submit comments and views with respect 
t o the Gr, 
^ 
application. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
received have been considered. No request for a hearing has been 
tec«ived. 
Section 4(d) of the Act provides that, to the extent such action 
U l d not h 
°e substantially at variance with the purposes of the Act and 
8 ^ e c t to 
such conditions as the Board considers necessary to protect the 
b l t c inter 
rest, the Board may grant an exemption from the prohibitions 
secti 
° n 4 of the Act to a bank holding company that controlled one bank 
r to j u l 
0
 
u y 1, 1968, and has not thereafter acquired the control of any 
bank i 
' 
n o r der (1) to avoid disrupting business relationships that 
listed over a long period of years without adversely affecting the 

2630 
-2-
banks or communities involved, (2) to avoid forced sales of small locally 
°wned banks to purchasers not similarly representative of community 
Int-
erests, or (3) to allow retention of banks that are so small in rela-
t i o n t o the holding company's total interests and so small in relation 
to the banking market to be served as to minimize the likelihood that the 
Powers to grant or deny credit may be influenced by a desire to 
further the holding company's other interests. 
The Board has considered the application in light of the factors 
Set forth in section 4(d) of the Act, and finds that: 
Applicant is a charitable foundation established in 1942 by W. L. 
o r*, and his wife Libbie Shearn Moody, with the stated purpose to 
assist i 
m supporting activities that are directed toward improving the 
BGnetrai 
well being of the people who live in Texas. Applicant has invest-
*nterests in several nonbank companies, but its principal investments 
^ 
its 35 
per cent interest in the American National Financial Corpora-
tion 
r\ 
a Delaware corporation, owning 100 per cent of the shares of American 
A insurance Company, and (b) 51 per cent of the voting shares of 
^he Mooh 
oy National Bank of Galveston ("Bank"), Galveston, Texas. American 
a l Insurance Company ranks (as of December 31, 1971) as the ninth 
in size (in terras of insurance in force) and eleventh largest in 
i t h assets of $1.5 billion as of December 31, 1971) among stock life 
C e companies in the United States. 

2631 
-40-
Bank was founded by 17. L. Moody, Jr., in 1907, and continued to 
b e controlled by Mr. Moody until his death in 1954. Upon his death, the 
Olltrol of Bank passed through his estate to Applicant, the estate being 
Settled in 1959. With deposits of approximately $38 million as of June 30, 
972» Bank is the third largest of the fourteen banks located in the Galves-
t 0 n Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, and holds about 12 per cent 
Of f.i 
t G aggregate deposits in commercial banks in that market. Bank appears 
t o be -j 
xn generally satisfactory condition, its management capable, and its 
pr°sPects good. 
The Board has found no evidence that the ownership and control 
of 
, 
oy W. L. Moody, Jr., or the Moody Foundation has had an adverse 
effect °n the Bank or the communities involved. Rather it appears that 
endeavors of Applicant in the areas of education, health, 
Welfare 
t h e charitable 
> etc., have had a beneficial effect on the people of Texas. Since 
1 9 6 0 A Pplicant has made charitable grants totaling more than $55 million. 
s no evidence of any misuse of Bank by Applicant, nor any evidence 
t 0
 
t h a t t h e c o n t l n u e d o w n e r s h i p o f B a n k b y A p p l l c a n t w
m 
j e o p a r d l z e 
nncial soundness of Bank. American National maintains a payroll account 
f°r its h 
nome office at Bank. Apparently, neither American National nor 
Applicant's other subsidiaries has borrowed from Bank. 
Although Applicant's income is derived from several sources, about 
6 2 Per cent of its gross revenues were derived (during 1971) from dividends 
^tom Am 
^erican National. During the same period, income from Bank accounted 
for 
y about 1 per cent of Applicant's total revenues. In addition, 

2632 
-4-
the total assets of the Bank ($46 million) constitute (as of December 31, 
2.9 per cent of the total assets ($1.58 billion) of the companies 
ill Vi 
the holding company system. 
On the basis of the entire record, the Board concludes that the 
^siness relationships between The Moody Foundation and Bank have existed 
°ver a long period of years without adversely affecting the banks or 
L°Bimunities involved; Bank is small in relation to the total interests of 
Th 
G Moody Foundation and it appears unlikely that Bank's powers to grant 
° r d e ny credit would be influenced by a desire to further Applicant's other 
°rests. Granting an exemption to Applicant would not be substantially 
at v^riance with the purposes of the Act nor adverse to the public interest; 
nd an exemption is warranted under the provisions of section 4(d) of the 
ct* Accordingly, an exemption pursuant to section 4(d) of the Act is 
G*eby granted subject to the condition that this determination may be 
evoked if the f a cts upon which it is based change in any material respect. 
Urther, the provision of any credit, property, or service by the Regis-
n t 
any subsidiary thereof shall not be subject to any condition which, 
ilnPosed by a bank, would constitute an unlawful tie-in arrangement 
§ 106 of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. The 
Cermination herein is subject to the Board's authority to require 
^od-jf-f 
^cation or termination of the activities of Applicant or any of its 

2633 
-5-
n°nbanking subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
a n d orders issued thereunder, or to orevent evasions thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
|L V o t ing for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
B U r^ e r» Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
2 6 3 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 8 
7/12/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OTFICIAl. CORRESPONDENCE 
TD THE BDARD 
July 16, 1973 
William D. Martin, III, Esq. 
Assistant General Counsel 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 
23261 
Dear Mr. Martin: 
This refers to your inquiry concerning the application of 
the second paragraph of § 23A of the Federal Reserve Act to trans-
actions involving Bank of Virginia and Commonwealth Mortgage Company, 
both subsidiaries of Bank of Virginia Company (formerly Virginia Common-
wealth Bankshares, Inc.), a registered bank holding company. It is 
understood that Bank of Virginia makes loans to Commonwealth Mortgage 
Company, taking FHA mortgages as collateral on such loans. Bank of 
Virginia contends that FHA mortgages are "obligations of the U.S. 
Government," and that the second paragraph of § 23A (relating to 
collateral on the. loans by a member bank to its affiliate) would 
Permit the bank to make loans to the mortgage company on the collateral 
of FHA mortgages equal to the aggregate outstanding principal balance 
of such mortgage loans. 
The Board has considered the question presented and concurs 
in the view of the counsel at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond that 
the FHA mortgages are not obligations of the United States Government 
for purposes of the collateral requirements of § 23A. In taking this 
action, the Board noted, among other facts, that neither the Federal 
Housing Administration nor the Treasury Department regards such mortgages 
as U.S. obligations. Rather than being an obligation of the U.S. Govern-
ment, an FHA insured mortgage represents a potential claim on (depending 
on the type of mortgage insured) one of the four mortgage insurance 
funds established pursuant to the provisions of the National Housing 
Act, Furthermore, the primary obligation for the payment of such 

2635 
William D. Martin, III, Esq. 
Mortgages rests with the mortgagor and not the United States Government. 
Only in cases of default and after following the detailed claim pro-
cedures, does the holder of an FHA insured mortgage have recourse—not 
to the U.S. Treasury—but to one of the insurance funds. 
Please advise Bank of Virginia of the Board's conclusion in 
this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 

2636 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 9 
7/12/73 
THE REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF DALLAS 
"Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
PtOVidno 
ues certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect to 
anking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amendments 
to the r 
Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding Com-
pany Apt 
Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 1970" 
°°atinue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, in non-
bankin 
S activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on June 30, 
1 9 6 8 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of activities 
Carr*ed on 
• a s a result of the acquisition by such company or subsidiary, 
PurSll 
to a binding written contract entered into on or before June 30, 
1 9 6 8 > of another company engaged in such activities at the time of the 
acquisit, 
^ 
10n;» and has been continuously engaged in since June 30, 1968 
S U c h subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
e rno r s of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
-f £ 
u 
it, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
n e S t h a t s u c h action is necessary to prevent an undue concentration 
re 
^ 
0urces, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, 
und banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a 
n k ^ith 
n assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
^ ft 
3 required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

2637 
-2-
Notice of the Board's proposed review of grandfather 
Pr*vilege3 of The Republic National Bank of Dallas, Dallas, Texas, and 
a U °PP°rtunity for interested persons to submit comments and views or 
request a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414). The time for filing 
c°mments, views, and requests has expired, and all those received have 
b e e n c°nsidered by the Board in light of the factors set forth in § 4(a)(2) 
°f the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following findings. 
T h e RePublic National Bank of Dallas, ("Registrant"), Dallas, Texas, 
be 
Caine a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of the 
l97n 
—^ 
Amendments to the Act, 
by virtue of Registrant's indirect ownership 
of 
per cent of the voting shares of Oak Cliff Bank and Trust Company 
("B ii 
ank'), Dallas, Texas (assets of about $96 million, as of December 31, 
197Q\ 
}* Bank, control of which was acquired by Registrant in 1929 had 
°tal deposits of approximately $94 million as of December 31, 1971, 
Renting less than 2 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
i T ^ h — -
t*oli 
B o a rd' s action herein is based on Registrant's claim that it con-
Co 
only one bank on June 30, 1968, and therefore became a bank holding 
of 
covered by the Bank Holding Company Act as a result of the enactment 
int
 
e 1970 Amendments to the Act. The record shows that Registrant has 
£ t o^ r e s t s in each of 21 other banks ("minority" banks), interests ranging 
^ to 24,98 per cent. The action herein does not constitute a deter-
° n by the Board that any of the minority banks is or Is not, or may 
that*110 
a s u b sidi a ry 
Registrant. Nor does the action herein indicate 
Of . the Board would in the future permit Registrant to acquire, directly 
ovet,n<J^rectly, any additional shares of any of said minority banks. More-
App, the action herein does not preclude the Board from determining that 
itie^j, C a n t exercises control of, or a controlling influence over the manage-
Act ° r policies of, any of said banks within the meaning of § 2(a) of the 

2638 
-3-
banks in the Dallas banking market, and is the seventh largest bank in 
a t market. Bank's management, financial condition, and prospects are 
re8arded as satisfactory, and the Board has found no evidence of unsound 
b a n k i n 8 practices. 
Registrant, a national bank with total assets of $2.6 billion 
a s °f December 31, 1970, is the largest banking organization in Texas, 
aild t h e largest of 118 banks in the Dallas banking market. Registrant has 
ePosits of $1.8 billion, representing about 28 per cent of the deposits in 
0nimercial banks in the Dallas market and about 6 per cent of such 
eP°sits in the State." 
Together with its banking subsidiary, Regis-
tt" 
11 controls deposits of $1.9 billion, representing about 29 per cent 
of 
deposits in Dallas and 6.3 per cent of the total deposits in the 
State. 
Registrant has six wholly-owned nonbanking subsidiaries: 
(1) 
P u b U c International Company, Dallas, Texas, an Edge Act Corporation 
in May, 1968; (2) Republic Computer Corporation, Dallas, Texas, 
0lnPany that apparently was acquired in March, 1969 and provides data 
PtoceqeM 
°t>ing services to commercial banks; (3) Republic National Corporation, 
min8ton, Delaware, a company that was acquired in February, 1964 and 
registrant's banking premises; (4) Medipark, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a 
compa y that was acquired in August, 1969 and owns and operates a parking 
Sata<> 
g e for Registrant's employees and customers; (5) Republic Small Business 
ment Company, Dallas, Texas, a small business investment company 
in May, 1961; and (6) Livingston, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a company 
that xi 
a s acquired In April, 1955 and owns title to a building adjoining 
eP°sit data are as of December 31, 1971, unless otherwise indicated. 

2639 
-4-
Re8istrant's offices. A subsidiary that was acquired after June 30, 
does not provide a basis for entitlement to grandfather benefits. 
Ho 
®Ver, each of the six subsidiaries is directly owned by Registrant, 
a National bank. Accordingly, on the basis of § 4(c)(5) of the Act and 
§ OOr 
zL> 
^5'4(e) of the Board's Regulation Y, 
Registrant need not rely on 
§randfather privileges under the proviso in § 4(a)(2) for authority to 
c°ntinue the activities of the six direct subsidiaries. 
In addition to its direct subsidiaries, Registrant is deemed to 
c°ntrol, by virtue of § 2(g)(2) of the Act, the Howard Corporation, a 
steed affiliate of Registrant. Through the Howard Corporation, Regis-
trant -i 
reportedly engaged in dealing in securities; in activity involving 
oil 
* 8as, and mineral exploration and development; and In certain real 
e activity. The Board has currently under consideration and review 
the 
question of Registrant's entitlement to grandfather privileges with 
e 
under 
PGct to these activities and whether termination should be required 
the criteria set forth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act, and a determination 
n that question will be issued in the future. 
3/ S — 
"shar
 
l 0 n 4(c)(5) of the Act permits a bank holding company to acquire 
nat^o
es which are of the kinds and amount eligible for investment by 
hanking associations under the provisions of section 5136 of the 
Statutes;". Pursuant to § 225.4(e) of Regulation Y, a national 
^sig 
a bank holding company may acquire or retain shares on the 
of t, o f section 4(c)(5) in accordance with the rules and regulations 
e Comptroller of the Currency. 

, 2640 
-5-
On the basis of the foregoing and the facts before the Board, 
appears that Registrant is authorized to continue to engage in the 
activities of its six direct subsidiaries described herein. 
4/ 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
July 13, 
1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
& Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
rimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. 

2641 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R B 
DF THE 
Item No. 10 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/12/73 
AIRMAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
The Republic National Bank of Dallas 
Pacific and Ervay Streets 
Dallas, Texas 75201 
Gentlemen: 
Enclosed is a copy of a notice issued by the Board for 
Publication in the Federal Register and relating to certain grandfather 
Privileges claimed by your company under the "grandfather" proviso 
in § 4(a)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended. 
As indicated in the notice, Registrant's entitlement to 
grandfather privileges with respect to the activities of the Howard 
Corporation and whether termination should be required under the 
criteria set forth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act are questions that are 
still under consideration and review by the Board. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20D51 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 13, 1973 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

o r 
. 1 o 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
o f t h e 
item No. 11 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
7/12/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
5 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
July 13, 1973 
The Honorable Harrison A. Williams, J] 
^airman 
Subcommittee on Securities of the 
Senate Committee on Banking, 
housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D..C. 20510 
^ar Mr. Cha irman: 
I am writing in response to your letter of June 29, 1973, 
l n v/hich vou invite the comments of the Board of Governors on 
S« 2058, which appears to be substantially similar lo legislation 
Passed by the Senate last year. 
Under the arrangement in S. 205S. the Securities and 
Exchange Commission is authorized to prescribe rules relating to 
c r i n g agencies (defined to include depositories) and transfer 
a§ents. Enforcement authority respecting the application of such 
J-ules to such institutions which are banking organizations (banks, 
nk holding companies and subsidiaries thereof) is lodged in the 
three Federal bank supervisory agencies: the Comptroller of the 
Currency in the case of national banks, the Federal Deposit 
insurance Corporation in the case of State ncnmember insured banks, 
and the Federal Reserve in the case of State member banks, bank 
olding companies, and nonbank subsidiaries thereof. Clearing 
^agencies and transfer agents which are not banking organizations 
be subject to the enforcement jurisdiction of the SEC. 
The Board feels that the provisions of the bill requiring 
c°nsultation and cooperation among the agencies responsible for 
Ministering the legislation are of great importance. The function 
acting as a clearing agency (depository) is being carried out by 
ePository Trust Co., which is chartered as a bank, and is a member 
ank of the Federal Reserve System. It seems most probable that 
p 0 s t other depositories will similarly be State member banks of the 
Gderal. Reserve System, and, as such, subject to examination and 
®uPervision bv the State chartering authority and the Federal Reserve 
°cause of these unique features of- the developing clearing agencies 

*>i* * *> 
The Honorable Harrison A. Williams, Jr. 
- 
2 
-
(depositories), the Board believes that more widespread utilization 
of such institutions will be made if the rules governing clearing 
agencies (depositories) are the product of a joint effort by the 
SEC and the bank regulatory agencies. Although we regard the 
assignment of joint responsibility for rule-writing to more than 
one Federal agency to be generally disadvantageous as a regulatory 
procedure, we believe that the public acceptability of bank clear-
ing agencies (depositories)--which is vital to success of the entire 
progratn--wil1 be enhanced by providing for the concurrence of the 
appropriate bank supervisory agency prior to the adoption of any 
rule by the SEC applying to any clearing agency (depository) which 
is a bank. 
S. 2.058 appears to authorize the adoption of reasonable 
rules setting standards relating to the financial condition and 
character of a prospective participant in any clearing agency 
(depository). Since the matter oi; integrity is so important in the 
carrying on of the clearing agency (depository) function--a function 
which is essentially fiduciary in nature—we believe that the proposed 
legislation should clearly authorize the adoption of reasonable rules 
relating to denial of participation in any clearing agency (depository) 
based upon adverse financial or character factors. 
I trust these comments will prove helpful .to ycu, and we are 
enclosing for your consideration several suggestions for technical 
amendments relative to the proposed legislation. The Board appreciates 
Having had the opportunity to comment on proposed S. 2058. 
Sincerely yours, 

' W G - 1 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 
Proposed Amendments to S. 2058 
(A) On page 27, line 11, paragraph (i) should be amended to 
read as follows so that (1) the powers encompassed in the Financial 
Institutions Supervisory Act will apply to both clearing agencies and 
transfer agents and (2) temporary orders may issue under that Act 
to prevent prejudicing the interests of any person affected, and not 
merely depositors: 
"(i) Compliance with the requirements imposed by this 
section and section 17A of this Act may be enforced under 
section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 UcS«C, 1818) 
by the appropriate regulatory agencies other than the 
Commission. For the purpose of the exercise by the appropriate 
regulatory agency of its powers under section S of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act, any State member bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, including each subsidiary thereof, and any 
bank holding company and nonbank subsidiary of a bank holding 
company, acting as a clearing agency or as a transfer agent, shall 
be considered an insured bank. Any violation of any requirement 
imposed under this section or section 17A of this Act upon banks, 
bank holding companies, or nonbank subsidiaries of bank holding 
companies registered as transfer agents or clearing agencies is 
a violation of the requirements imposed under the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act and shall constitute adequate basis for the 
issuance of orders under section 8(b) and 8(c) of that Act: and 
for the purposes of this sentence the reference in section 8(c) 

2 6 4 5 
- 2 -
to "depositors" shall be deemed to include"a 11 persons doing 
business with a transfer agent or a clearing agency. In 
addition to its power under section 8 of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act, each of such appropriate regulatory agencies 
may, for the purpose of enforcing compliance with this 
section or section 17A of this Act or any rule thereunder, 
exercise any other authority conferred on it by law." 

.. 2646 
(B) In order to permit participant banks to purchase stock 
in depositories as is now required of all participants in Depository 
Trust Company, Section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 USC 24) 
should be amended by adding the following provision: 
"Tenth. Notwithstanding any other provision in this 
section, to acquire or hold shares of stock or obligations 
issued by a corporation engaged solely in the functions of 
a 'clearing agency' as defined in section 3(a) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934." 

2647 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 12 
7/12/73 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act» has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
^ 
U.s.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less 
Sectors' qualifying shares) of the successor to a merger of 
H°rthline State Bank, Houston, Texas ("Bank") ,-^ith view ITorthline 
btat-o T» 
^ank, a newly organized bank not in operation. The banks 
w°uld merge under the charter and name of Bank, and the proposed 
accluisition i g t r e a t e (j herein as the proposed acquisition of shares 
o f Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
I q j . 
rested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
a 0 d views has expired, and none has been timely received. The Board 
c°nsidered the application in light of the factors set forth 
l n § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
y T j r — - — - — 
Present Applicant owns .97 per cent of the voting shares of Bank, 

2618 
-2-
Applicant, the third largest banking organization in Texas 
and largest in the Houston banking market (approximated by the Houston 
StISA), controls 15 banks with aggregate deposits of $2,012 million, 
wllich represent about 6 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
i n Texas and 19.5 per cent of all such deposits in the Houston banking 
^rket.-?/ in addition, Applicant owns voting shares (less than 25 per cent) 
o f each of 13 other banks which hold, in the aggregate, deposits of 
^Proximately $406 million, representing 1.17 per cent of aggregate 
dePosits in commercial banks in Texas.—'' Consummation of the proposed 
transaction would add .15 percentage points to Applicant's share of 
t h e Huston banking market and .04 percentage points to Applicant's 
8 h a r e of total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
F u n k i n g data are as of December 31, 1972, adjusted to reflect 
Iding company acquisitions and formations approved through Hay 31, 1973. 
0 I 
r 
Board's Order of January 4S 1973, conditions approval of 
PPlicant's acquisition of Highland Village State Bank, Houston, 
Cj*as» and of First State Bank of Clear Lake City, Clear Lake 
Texas, upon divestiture of direct or indirect control of 
aJi V o t l n S shares in excess of 5 per cent of both South Main Bank 
d o lights State Bank, both of Houston, Texas. The above figures 
n°t reflect any such divestiture. 

2649 
-3-
Bank, a small retail institution with deposits of 
aPProximately $12 million, serves primarily an area surrounding 
fche T7orthline Shopping Center in a suburban area of north Houston. 
the basis of deposits, Bank ranks 94th among the 156 banks within 
e rapidly expanding Houston banking market. Bank's service 
a r e a overlaps that of only one of Applicant's subsidiaries, First 
C i ty national Bank, a large downtown wholesale institution located 
° V e r s i x miles from Bank. Due to its small size and its distance 
fr 
downtown Houston, Bank is not regarded as a desirable vehicle 
Ioy* entry into the Houston banking market. Moreover, Bank and 
APPlicant are affiliates, since shareholders owning 58.34 per cent 
of 
e outstanding stock of Bank also own 50.06 per cent of the 
tandlng stock of Applicant. A close relationship apparently 
a s existed between Applicant and Bank since Bank's formation in 1965; 
ail(i Persons with present and past affiliations with Applicant have 
lx*ays participated in Bank's management. On the basis of the record, 
Board considers that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
not adversely affect competition in any relevant area to any 
8ignifleant extent. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
ksidiary banks, and Bank, are regarded as satisfactory and consistent 
Vith 
approval and prospects are considered favorable. Considerations 
^ating to the convenience and needs of the community are consistent 

, 2650 
t -• 
-4~ 
approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition is in the public interest and that the application should 
b e 
a p p r o v e d . 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
t 0 r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°nsurnmated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
th 
e effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
f Of 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
^ aUa8 pursuant to delegated authority. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective July 12, 1973„ 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
V Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors 
^immer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
Airman Burns and Governor Daane. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 
7/12/73 
13 
J E F F R E Y M. B U C H E R 
MEMBER QF THE 
BOARD 
July 17, 1973 
Jhe Honorable William Proxmire 
Committee on Banking, Housing 
and Urban Affairs 
^nited States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Senator Proxmire: 
f 
The Board is pleased to respond to your request of June 28, 1973, 
(j r its views on several proposed amendments to S. 2101, which contains the 
^air Credit Billing Act" and other amendments to the Truth in Lending Act. 
Oifr 
^ ^ t i t u t e for Good Faith Compliance Soc.tion 
Two of the proposed amendments (designated alternatives 1 and 2), 
^-ch deal with a creditor's "good faith compliance" with the provisions of 
^ nth in Lending, represent considerable extensions of a proposal which the 
ard made in its Annual Report to Congress. 
That proposal was designed to 
^ °vide a. defense to civil liability for a creditor's good faith reliance 
-rules, regulations, or interpretations issued by the Board if they were 
' 
Sequently declared invalid by a court. The additions to the Board's 
Sgested provision are indicated by the underlining shown below: 
No provision of this section or section 112 
Imposing any liability shall apply to any act done 
or omitted in good faith (1) in conformity with 
the Act, or with any rule, regulation, or interpre-
tation thereof by the Board, or (2) in conformity 
with any reasonable inte.rpretation of a significant 
ambiguity in, or significant conflict between, said 
i 

Honorable William Froxmire 
-2- 
* . 
2 6 5 2 
Act, rules, regulations, or interpretations, not-
withstanding that after such act or omission has 
occurred, such Act, rule, regulation, or .interpre-
tation is amended, rescinded, or determined by 
judicial or other authority to be invalid for any 
reason. [Alternative 2 which is otherwise 
identical to alternative 1, adds the following 
sentence.] Any act done or omitted in conformity 
with the standards and conditions set forth in 
the preceding sentence shall not subject the 
creditor to liability under State lav.7 where State 
requirements conflict with those of Federal law„ 
As you know, section 105 of the Act (15 U.S.C. § 1604) gives the 
°ard broad authority to promulgate regulations "to effectuate the purposes 
the Act], to prevent circumvention or evasion thereof, or to facilitate 
compliance therewith." Pursuant to this authority, the Board has Issued 
r°ad-ranging regulations to implement the Act, as well as numerous formal 
,l
nterPretations of these regulations. Many of these rules make 
classifications," "differentiations" and "adjustments" to the Act's provi-
f,x°ns as permitted by the section 105 authority so that there may be a 
^c°nflict" wxth the literal language of the statute. Some of these rules have 
°en challenged by the courts. The Board in recommending the original "good 
aith reliance" provision merely wished to protect those creditors from 
liability who had followed these rules in good faith in the event 
*at a court might hold that the regulatory provisions were invalid for some 
eason. 
k 
In the proposed new language, various references to "the Act" have 
added to the Board's suggested provision. This change considerably 
of°adens the concept of the provision beyond the simple equitable protection 
those creditors who have followed the Board's regulations in good faith. 
e insertion of the references to the Act could, in fact, be used as an 
„ Sumcnt by a creditor that it could ignore any of the "classifications," 
v
 Iiferentiations" or "adjustments" made by the Board in Regulation Z to pre-
t.Jni: evasion or to carry out the purposes of the Act. A creditor could argue 
s. 
it was entitled simply to follow the unadorned provisions of the Act 
V]mCG t h o r c could be no civil liability "for any act done. . .in conformity 
Act- r ^ 
r c a s o n a b l e interpretation. . .of a significant conflict between said 
Mi 1 
d t h o^ rules, regulations. . „" Under this theory, the Supreme Court 
Mc 
. o t Ilave r c cl u i r c d adherence to the "more-than-four-instalment" rule i 
Family Publications Service, Inc., (4 CCtf Consun? r Credit Guide 
^^->034) auci 
c o u rt might have been forced to allow a home improvement 
Sco 
t 0 iS n o r e the Board's inclusion of mechanic's liens within the 
a "security interest" giving rise to the right of rescission in 
^-^tiLeed^ v. The Board of Governors. (4 CC1I Consumer Credit Guide V99. 079). 
froard believes that the references to "the Act" should be deleted from 
0 Provision. 
th 

tfhe Honorable William Proxmire 
-3- 
°653 
f . 
The new version absolves any creditor from civil liability for 
ailure to comply with Truth in Lending where that creditor has acted "in 
conformity with any reasonable interpretation of a significant ambiguity 
n> or significant conflict between, said Act, rules, regulations, or 
interpretations". 
To our knowledge, such a provision, which offers a 
Jjroditor as many different alternatives to compliance as might be 
reasonable", would be unique to Federal law. While undoubtedly submitted 
tn the laudable motive of preventing frivolous law suits which 
fortunately have occasionally characterized the history m Tv-M-, i n 
^ending)} i n the Board's view such a provision could make the successful 
•ln8ing of a civil suit for violation so difficult as to effectively bar 
y civil remedy. 
This, in turn, could encourage a cavalier approach to 
C0*Pliance. 
A function of the regulatory process is to clarify ambiguities, 
att- t h G B o a r d h a s> throughout the four years of Truth in Lending, continually 
^ ornptod to refine and simplify the various requirements of the law. Most 
att-ntly' it: i s s u e d a r e v i s e d version of the advertising requirements in an 
^ 
GrnPt to leave no doubt as to the precise requirements of the Act and 
itSo^ati°n* 
G i v e n tllis goal and the Board's progress toward achieving it, 
„ seems questionable whether the Act should formalize a presumption of 
Sn:i'-ficant ambiguity" concerning the provisions of Truth in Lending. 
Prot^VGr> W e r c t1llis provision to be enacted, it is not difficult to envision 
viol r a? t c d legal proceedings revolving not around the question of whether a 
the.£lti'?n h a s occurred, but whether the creditor acted "reasonably", whether 
rn3'-ght be an "ambigulcv", and whether or not that ambiguity might be 
bubstantial". 
" 
St 
It might be noted that the new civil liability provisions in 
jU(1 
(§ 208) are an improvement over the present provisions in that a 
at^onC * 1 G a r i n8 a class action is specifically instructed to take into account, 
VtQs ? other factors, "the extent to which the creditor's failure of compliance 
^ ' n t - Q n t i ° n a l " - 
N° d a r u a s e s 11Ged 
awarded to the class where the judge 
pr0v. I1- appropriate taking into account all the circumstances. 
This 
S X o n should meet much of the concern about the possibility of creditors 
& held liable for d_e minimis or questionable violations. 
americj 
As a n alternative to the concluding sentence in the proposed floor 
t0 iu^GritJ t h e 
believes that section 111 of the Act can be strengthened 
^hici)
SUre tllGt creditors are not subject to civil suit under a State law 
diS{/ 
conflict with Federal law. Suggested language follows our 
in 0"ll!sS3'-on of section 111 below. That language is offered in lieu of § 171 
2101. 
\ 

tfhe Honorable William Proxmire 
-4-
°653 
^bstitiutc for Relation to State Laws Scction 
This proposal would amend section 111 of the Act to require 
e Board to determine when State laws may be inconsistent with Federal 
.aws> b u t would circumscribe that process by specifying that a State lav; 
s not inconsistent where it gives greater protection to the consumer. 
*P-posal is as follows with underlining indicating the proposed 
d "iticn to the present statutory language: 
This title does not annul, alter, or affect 
or exempt any creditor from complying with, the laws 
of any State relating to the disclosure of informa-
tion in connection with credit transactions, or with 
respect to credit billing practices, except to the 
extent that those laws are inconsistent with the 
provisions of this title or regulations thereunder, 
and then only to the extent of the inconsistency, 
j-hc Board is authorized to determine whether such 
inconsistencies exist. The Board may not determine 
that: any State law is inconsistent with any provision 
of this Chapter if the Board determines that such law 
gives greater protection to the consumer. The Board 
shall by regulation exempt from the requirements of 
Chapter 2 or Chapter 4 any class of credit transactions 
within any State if it determines that under the J.aw of 
that. State that class of transaetions is subject to 
requirements subs tan rial jLv similar to those imp osed 
under these chapters or tiiat such 1aw gives greater 
El-P-toctlon to the consumer, and that there, is adequate. 
j 
jvrovision for enforcement. 
r e v i 
The Board questions whether it is truly necessary to have it 
to r T a 1 1 o f t h G v a r i o u s credit laws in the 50 States on a continuing basis 
sin 
• 3 d e t e r m i n a t i o n which State laws may be inconsistent with Federal law, 
foj,0^ i n § 226.6(b) of Regulation Z the Board has set forth specific guidelines 
°termining when State law is inconsistent. 
It has not appeared neces-
adrrii 
a s s u m o s u c h a taslc f o r creditors during the four years the Board has 
B ^ s t e r e d Truth in Lending. Moreover, the provision specifying that the 
°£fe 
m Q y n° L d c t e r m i n e t h a t any State law is inconsistent where such law 
may 
S'teater protection to the customer, no matter how well intentioned, 
\?hicK
G detrimental to the goals of uniform disclosure throughout the nation, 
Co**' a r ° b a s i c t o providing consumers with an ability to shop between 
haR I°tinS> credit offers. One of the strengths of the Truth in Lending Act 
tnatt ' C e n its requirements of uniformity throughout the country, so that no 
livi->r fro:n whom a customer may seek credit or in what region he may be 
ng> 
can be assured that disclosures from place to place and from 

The Honorable William Proxmire 
-5- 
- 
^ ^ 
^ O t i O 
creditor to creditor are computed on the same basis and are made according 
t o the same standards. 
However, the proposal would apparently encourage 
a n d sanction State disclosure laws, as well as billing practice restrictions, 
vhich may have standards at variance with the Federal requirements. 
For 
Sample, a particular State might deem it greater consumer protection to 
require that all real estate closing costs be included in the finance charge 
and the annual- percentage rate. 
If a variation of that type was held not to 
ke inconsistent with the Federal law by virtue of this proposed language, 
disclosures made pursuant to that State law would not be comparable with the 
federal disclosures. Moreover, in the area of credit billing, there would 
be serious question as to whether a particular law, taken as a whole, gives 
greater protection to the consumer. 
For example, would a State law which 
Prohib its minimum charges, but sanctions the previous balance method, 
rePresent greater or less consumer protection than a Federal law which pro-
hibits the previous balance method but authorizes minimum charges? With 
respect to limitations on the holder-in-due-course doctrine, is a State law 
vbich allows consumers to raise defenses with card issuers where the trans-
ition is more than $25 and made within 50 miles of the consumer's residence 
m°re or less protective than one where the limits are $50 and 100 miles? 
The above comments are equally applicable to the proposed last 
Sentence which appears to be a substitute for the present section 123 of the 
ct» 
Such a provision would destroy the uniformity of nationwide disclosure 
ynder the State exemption procedure which presently requires a State to have 
Substantially similar" State requirements in order to qualify for an 
exemption. 
, 
With exception of the addition of the technical language to 
armonize section 111 with the addition of the credit billing provisions, the 
°nrd recommends against the proposal. 
It does suggest consideration of the 
°Uowi.ng alternative language, to the present section 111(a) to more clearly 
Seclude unfair conflicts between State and Federal law: 
This Title exempts any creditor from complying 
with the laws of any State relating to the disclosure 
of information in connection with credit transactions, 
or with respect to billing practices, to the extent 
that those laws are inconsistent with the provisions 
of this Title or regulations thereunder. 
Am 
^endment to Business Use, of Credit: Cards Section 
s 
As we understand the proposal, it would be an addition to 
f
e^ti 0 n ]35 a s i t appears in S. 2101 so that the section would read as 

tfhe Honorable William Proxmire 
-6-
°653 
The provisions of section 104(1) shall not apply 
to sections 132, 133 and 134, except that any business 
or other organization which provides credit cards to 
more than 10 of its employees to be used for the pur-
P_oses described in section 104 (1) shall be liable for 
any 'charges exceeding $50 which result from the un-
authorized use of such credit cards. 
The apparent intent of the provision is to exclude credit cards 
ssued to certain businesses from the limits on liability for unauthorized 
U S e of cards in section 133 of the Act (15 U.S.C. § 1643). We see several 
Problems with the proposed language of this provision. Under this language, 
a Federal law would appear to impose unlimited liability for unauthorized 
use of credit cards while, by contract, such liability has traditionally 
limited to loss prior to the time the cardholder has notified the card 
sSuer of the loss or theft of his card. It appears questionable whether 
*ecieral la w should disturb these contractual provisions. Moreover, as we 
read this language, an organization which provides a single credit card of 
issuer to a single employee will lose the benefit of the protection as 
as some credit cards, perhaps of other issuers, are provided to ten 
. its employees. We also question what protection an employee-consumer 
^ght have against an employer passing to him full responsibility for the 
UnHmit.ed liability for unauthorized use. 
Slih 
^^J:JLLute for Cash Discounts Section 
The proposal would provide that card issuers may not prohibit 
" J-l&rs from offering discounts to cardholders to induce the cardholder to 
iia ^ 
cas^> check or similar means rather than using a credit card, or for 
P°sing an additional charge at the time of sale for accepting a credit 
as payment. Such charges or discounts would be excluded from the 
^ UatlCe charge without limit. Any such discount or additional charge would 
dioG t o 
offered to or imposed on "all prospective buyers" and must be 
ty Sci°sed to all such buyers in accordance with regulations of the Board. 
assunie that "all prospective buyers" means only those buyers who present 
^ t cards for use in payment. Any other construction could encourage a 
Plicated dual pricing system of questionable general benefit. 
The provision would also specify that any such disccunt or 
shall not be deemed interest, finance charge, service charges or 
c^rges under the terms of any State usury, 
is-G a C t o r s i m i l a r statute. Such a provision, of 
Xs 
and 
re t a i I er ins t a linen t 
course, raises profound 
® U e s of appropriate State versus Federal areas of legitimate interest 
should be approached with caution. 

tfhe Honorable William Proxmire 
-7- °653 
2657 
±
 
S i n c e L h i s Provision has the effect of allowing a creditor to 
Snore a charge which is, in effect, a finance charge, the Board believes 
at it should be very narrowly drafted, particularly since it is designed 
o iclieve a very specialized problem—the desire of some merchants to 
Provide consumers, who pay cash in lieu of using a credit card, the equi-
carrf- ° 
• m e r c h a n t d i s c o u n t which would be charged the merchant by the 
in L 1 S S U O r / L a 
c r c d i t ° a r d i s U S e d ' 
T o o u r knowledge, merchant discounts 
Thn n
l 
?'\ 
a r C a t y P i c a l > a R d nany sre considerably below this amount. 
e Board believes that the limitation of 5% or $5, whichever is greater 
R e s t e d in its letter of June 13, 1973, to Senator Sparkmau, xs an 
appropriate ceiling. 
>Egual_Credit Opportunity 
While your letter did not ask for the Board's views on the 
Posed amendment to the Truth in Lending Act dealing with sex discrimina-
to t I"" t h G s r a n t i n s o f c r e d i t (Title III of s. 2101), the Board would like 
Boari t 
U S 
o p p o r t u n i t : y t 0 m a k e its views known on this proposal. 
The 
issu ^ a v o r s t h e Principal of making it unlawful for any creditor or card 
S t a J V ° d l s
t
c f i m i n a t e o n account of sex. There are, of course, serious 
it J L a W P r ° b l e m s w h i c h d e s c r v G in-depth Congressional consideration when 
p0r
 0 m e s t 0 Prohibiting discrimination on the basis of marital status 
t h u - ? r ? l e ' S ° m e S t a t G U W S 
r G s t r i c t w i v e s ' ability to encumber property, 
^recuT 
g L t i m P ° s s i b l e a t times for them to provide the kind of security 
•^itors require. 
" J 
to T J n 
T
T h Q B o a r d n o t c s t h a t t h e Proposal has been added as a new Chapter 
° 
t h e T r u t h i n L e n d l n 3 A c t , under which the Board is charged with 
Act 
regulations. 
The Board believes that the Equal Credit Opportunity 
issue' 
i 
a S c p a r a t e L i t l e o f t h e Consumer Credit Protection Act, since 
extenc-° 
w h e t h e r o r n o t discrimination may have occurred in an individual 
the f
l
° 
c r c d i t a r e m o r e appropriate to judicial determination, where 
Vritin 
F° f t h ° i n d i v i d u a i situation can be explored, than to general rule 
Provio? 
thrC L'ypG w h i c h W a s n e c e s s a r y to implement the detailed disclosure 
J-sions of the Truth in Lending Act. 
. Sincerely yours, 
Jeffrey M. Bucher 
^
s
^ 
\ 

B O A R D O F G D V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 14 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/12/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F r i C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 25, 1973 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 23, 1973, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to con-
tinue to hold the shares of Prestamos Prestos Puerto Rico Inc. 
("PPPR")j Puerto Rico, after PPPR acquires all of the stock of any 
additional small loan companies ("SLC") in Puerto Rico, the invest-
ment in each such company not to exceed approximately $900,000, and 
the total investments in such companies not to exceed approximately 
$2 ,000,000, provided the shares are acquired before December 31, 1974. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and indirect 
folding of shares of SLC by FNCOIC is granted subject to the follow-
ing conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in SLC if SLC at any time fails 
to restrict their activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if SLC establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Puerto Rico or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
FNCOIC will cause SLC (a) to permit examiners ap-
pointed by the Board to examine SLC, and (b) to fur-
nish the Board with such reports as it may require 
from time to time; 

265.9 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by SLC 
be reported under Section 211.3(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if SLC were a corporation or 
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Ac t; and 
(4) That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of SLC at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of SLC, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisitions, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Sank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of SLC. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

26 GO 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
^ o V c d ^ . . 
_ _ 
o f t h e 
Item No. 15 
" 
" 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/12/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
a r n c i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 23, 1973 
The Honorable Salvador E. Casellas 
The Secretary of the Treasury 
of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico 
Box 4515 
san Juan, Puerto Rico 
°ear Mr. Secretary: 
This will acknowledge your letter to Governor Brimmer, 
dated June 29, 1973, about the proposed acquisition by First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation of additional small loan com-
panies in Puerto Rico. 
The Board is grateful for having had the benefit of your 
Views, as expressed in your letter and also as conveyed to Governor 
^"timmer by telephone. They were very carefully considered by the 
0ard in its review of this case. 
As you know, in acting on applications made under Sections 25 
and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board is usually asked to 
Pass on applications by American banks to engage in activities in for-
eign countries. In those cases, the Board is concerned with the impact 
the size and type of the proposed activities cn the member bank or 
Se Corporation involved and with the consistency of those activities 
^ith the public purposes of those Sections. 
Competitive considerations in markets abroad are normally 
°t a relevant factor: the Board has no immediate knowledge of the 
c°nipetitive situation in those markets as ic may be affected by the 
of U.S. banks or by other institutions over which the Board has 
jurisdiction; in any event, the Board believes that the responsi-
J-ity for the financial structure in those markets rests with the local 
Authorities to be exercised in the light of their own laws and public 
P o l i cy goals. 
Because of Puerto Rico's special relationship to the United 
applications by member banks to acquire investments there are 
udled in the same way that other "foreign" acquisitions are treated. 

2661 
The Honorable Salvador E. Casellas -2-
So, it is necessary to appraise applications to do business in 
Puerto Rico by the same standards normally employed in deciding such 
cases. Consequently, the Board felt that it had no basis on which 
to make an independent judgment of the competitive situation in Puerto 
Rico. In this connection, the Board took note^of your indication that 
legislation is in preparation proposing enlarged authority for your 
Department to deal with the concerns mentioned in your letter. Such 
legislation will enable a public determination and resolution of the 
matter within the Commonwealth itself. Since the application in ques-
tion was not objectionable on other grounds, the Board did not believe 
that it should withhold its approval. 
As you will recall, the Board was instrumental in the prepa-
ration of the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 
These amendments resulted from public concern about the competitive 
implications of holding company acquisitions of financial enterprises 
other than banks. Since the passage of that legislation, the Board 
accumulated more than 2-1/2 years of experience in deciding such 
cases. If you wish to call upon that experience as you proceed in 
developing programs concerned with the structure of financial institu-
tions in the. Commonwealth, the Board would, of course, be willing to 
cooperate in any way it could, in keeping with the cooperative rela-
tionships already existing between the Board and your Department. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

.... 26G2 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
. • ^ o V c o v ; : • . 
o f 
t h e 
Item No. 16 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/12/73 
' 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1 ' ' " 0 
.WIiriwrA--. 
ADDRESS QrFICIAl. CORRESPONDENCE 
. 
TO THE G OAR D 
July 12, 1973 
In the Board's press release of April 20, 1973, procedures 
»ere outlined for waking publicly available annual. Reports of Income 
Reports of Condition with supporting schedules, 
t, „ 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced earlier 
year that it will notify nonmember insured banks of specific 
Quests for their reports. Similarly, the Comptroller of tlie Currency 
„tal'cn the position that any national bank, upon its request, will 
* 
had a listing of parties requesting its reports during a given 
t*fe Period, In crder that State member banks may be afforded couraarabls 
the Board has approved the establishment of procedures for 
tifi1ng state member banks each time their reports are requested 
by namo of bank. No notification will be cent: with respect 
n c
 l*°T'*e3ts for magnetic tapes covering all insured banks. Similarly, 
bonification will be sent with respect to requests for reports 
k 
groups of banks under general specifications, such as for all 
in 
a particular State or for all banks with deposits over a 
^cifio.d amount. 
f0~. , 
The Board plans to inform State member banks of prior requests 
t'h-" V U C J r rcf}0rts as wall as future requests, and it is suggested that 
W U i R c s e v v e Panics follow a sinilar procedure, A sample of the form that 
be used at the Board is enclosed for your examination. 
Yours sincerely, 
f * // 
/ / w 
-r v 
/ / / 
ufitZZ^ o 
Chester B, Feldberg 
Secretary 
^looure 
<0 
RESIDENTS OF ALL INDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND 
P R E S l D i - ^ I T S 
I1T CIlAIiGE 
01* 
B E A K C H E S 

TO: 
PROM: Office of the Secretary 
For your information copies of the report(s) for your 
bank checked below have been furnished in response to a request 
ftom 
^port(s) sent: 
I J 
Report of Condition with supporting schedules 
(Date) 
f j 
Report of Inccma 
(Date) 

Item No. 17 
7/12/73 
P°r Mediate release 
July 12, 1973 
In response to inquiries, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Syst m today provided the following interpretation, in the form of a question 
and an<5 swer, of the new penalty provisions that were part of its announcement 
Of j . 
y 5 amending Regulation Q which governs the payment of interest on deposits 
Question: How do the new penalty provisions apply, and how do they 
co previous Interpretations regarding amendment of time deposit agreements 
Answer: 
(a) As stated in the Board's announcement of July 5, 1973, the 
new 
er*alty provisions amend that part of Regulation Q "that permits the pay-
^nt o f a time deposit prior to maturity." These provisions apply to withdrawals 
of . 
nctpal and interest before maturity of new but not of previously existing 
ti*ne a 
GP°sits. (The effective date of the new penalty provisions is July 5, 
i973 
although the rate changes were effective July 1.) 
(b) The previously existing interpretations regarding amendment 
time deposit agreement -- in contrast with withdrawal of principal and in-
" still apply. One interpretation (12 CFIl 217.122) permits without 
^ t y a, 
, 
L n c amendment of a deposit agreement so that funds left on deposit 
interest up to the applicable new ceiling for periods after the 
V e date of the new ceiling. Another interpretation (12 CFR 217.102) con-
amendments providing for longer maturity specifies that such an amend-
v
d
o e s Hot constitute payment before maturity. Here also, however, any 
^Itcabi 
i G higher ceiling rate may be paid only during the period following 
Active date of the new ceiling, that is, beginning July 1, 1973. 
