MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 11, 1973 

im 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, January 11, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. 0'Connel1, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks and Mrs. Scott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent Calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of Burlington Bank and Trust Company, Burlington, North Carolina, a newly 

Ui 7 
1/11/73 
-2-
organized bank, for membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy 
of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved, Governor Robertson dissenting, the applications 
of (1) Central Penn National Bank, Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, and (2) 
Mercantile Trust Company National Association, St. Louis, Missouri, to 
establish branches in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. Copies 
of the letters sent to the applicants are attached as Items 2 and 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of American 
Fletcher National Bank and Trust Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, to 
establish a branch in Luxembourg. A copy of the letter sent to the 
applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Provident 
National Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to organize an Edge corporation 
in New York City, to be known as Provident International Bank. A copy of 
the letter informing the applicant of this action and transmitting a pre-
liminary permit is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Morgan 
Guaranty 
International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares 
of a limited liability company to be formed in Sao Paulo, Brazil. A 
copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Financial 
Corporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of The Lee County Bank, 
Fort Myers, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 

1/11/73 
-3-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Morgan Guaranty. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, 
to acquire shares of First Arts Leasing Company, S.A., Brussels, Belgium. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant, is attached as Item No. 8. 
Report on competitive factors. The Board unanimously approved, 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, a report on the com-
petitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Leola National 
Bank, Leola, Pennsylvania, into The Fulton National Bank of Lancaster, 
Lancaster, Pennsylvania. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Leola 
National Bank into The Fulton National Bank of Lancaster 
would eliminate some present and potential competition 
between the two banks. However, it would not increase 
meaningfully the concentration of total deposits in the 
relevant market. Overall, the effect of the proposal on 
competition would be slightly adverse. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. On January 8, 1973, the Board considered a 
proposal by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco to establish a 
rate of 4-3/4 per cent (an increase from 4-1/2 per cent) on discounts 
for and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal 
Reserve Act, together with appropriately corresponding subsidiary rates 
on advances under other sections of the Act. At that time it was agreed 
that the Board would defer action until a later meeting. 

: I G ! J 
1/11/73 
-4-
On December 18, 1972, and on January 2, 1973, the Board had 
disapproved proposals by a total of three Federal Reserve Banks to raise 
the discount rate from 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 or 5 per cent. A majority of the 
Board members had concluded that an increase in the rate would not have 
been timely under immediately prevailing circumstances, especially in 
light of the financing operations being conducted by the Treasury. How-
ever, it had been understood that the Board would take a close look at 
the possible need for an increase in the rate around the middle of 
January. 
During today's discussion there was strong sentiment in favor 
of an increase in the near future, but views differed as to the exact 
timing of the increase. Several members expressed a preference for 
announcing a higher rate prior to the upcoming meeting of the Federal 
Open Market Committee on January 16, thereby giving the Committee some 
basis for evaluating its market impact. Reservations were noted, how-
ever, about the desirability of associating the rate action too closely 
with the meeting and thereby incurring the risk of an undue market 
reaction if the rise were seen as signaling a significantly firmer stance 
in overall monetary policy. Other timing considerations related to 
Treasury financing operations, including the recent auction of a 20-year 
bond for which payment had been due yesterday. Staff estimated that 
perhaps 15 to 20 per cent of the $625 million issue remained in the hands 
of dealers and other temporary holders. 

1 7 0 
1/11/73 
-5-
In the ensuing discussion it was decided that in the circumstances 
it would be helpful to obtain the views of Treasury officials concerning 
the timing of an increase in the discount rate. Chairman Burns then 
withdrew from the meeting for that purpose. 
Continuing discussion focused on the proper magnitude of an 
increase in the discount rate. In the staff's view a 1/2 percentage 
point advance would be more in line with short-term market rate develop-
ments than a 1/4 percentage point rise. However, the larger increase 
would return the rate to its level on August 15, 1971, and would be 
more likely to precipitate advances in bank lending rates. 
Members of the Board expressed support for a 1/2 percentage 
point increase, although one member indicated he could vote for a 1/4 
percentage point rise now and a further 1/4 percentage point advance in 
the relatively near future. On balance, it was felt that the larger 
increase would be likely to create less uncertainty in the markets and 
would be more in keeping with general economic and financial developments. 
In addition, there was a desire to establish a rate that would be more 
effective in curbing the recent rise in member bank borrowings. Although 
the amount of credit extended at the Reserve Banks had decreased during 
the latest statement week, this figure remained at a high level. 
Chairman Burns then rejoined the meeting. He indicated that 
the Treasury understood the Board's position, and while they would prefer 
a short delay, they had no real objection to an increase in the discount 

1/11/73 
-7-
rate within the next few days. He also observed that an additional 
consideration relating to the timing of a discount rate change involved 
the scheduled announcement today of the Administration's Phase III 
Economic Program. He had not yet seen the text of the announcement and 
he did not know whether Secretary Shultz would stress the mandatory or 
the voluntary aspects of the new program in his briefing to the press. 
Accordingly, he would prefer to defer a judgment on the proper timing 
of a discount rate action until those matters were clarified. 
Other members of the Board also indicated an interest in review-
ing the Phase III announcement and it was therefore decided that the 
meeting would adjourn and reconvene this afternoon. 
The meeting reconvened in the Board Room at 3:50 p.m., with the 
same Board members and staff in attendance. Following the morning meet-
ing proposals for discount rate increases to 5 per cent had been received 
from the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, and Kansas City. 
During the discussion support was again indicated for an increase 
of 1/2 percentage point in the discount rate. There continued to be some 
differences of view, however, with regard to the proper timing of the 
action. Some members suggested that it might be desirable to wait 
several days--perhaps one week or more before taking the action. In 
their view such a delay would give markets time to assimilate the impli-
cations of the Phase III program and would minimize the possibility that 

L t 'w 
1/11/73 
-7-
the System's action would be viewed as being inconsistent with that 
program. Other members felt that the higher rate should be announced 
within the next day or two, since a prompt action would be likely to be 
regarded as a measure intended to support the anti-inflationary objec-
tives of the Phase III program. It was also suggested that the general 
economic case for an increase-- including the widened spread between the 
discount rate and money market rates, the growth in member bank borrow-
ings, and the overall posture of monetary policy against the background 
of the recent bulge in the monetary aggregates--argued strongly against 
a delay of more than a few days. The discussion also focused on Treasury 
financing constraints and the view was expressed that an increase in the 
discount rate announced today or tomorrow would be preferable to an 
action taken early next week. In this connection, it was noted that an 
announcement at the time of the weekly bill auction on Monday, or shortly 
thereafter, might adversely affect the dealers who bid successfully in 
the auction and tend as a consequence to exert upward pressure on bill 
rates. 
After further brief discussion action on the discount rate proposal 
was deferred in order to provide additional time for consideration of the 
important timing issues that were involved. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

/Iv 
173 
B O A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1/11/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C A S F T T S P O N C T N C T 
T O 
T H C 
B O A R D 
January 11, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Burlington. Bank and Trust Company 
Burlington, North Carolina 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the. application of Burlington Bank and Trust Company, Burlington, north 
Carolina, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, subject to 
the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope cf 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $1,100,000, and other capital funds of not less 
than $1,050,000. 
T.n connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's Regu-
lation H. regarding membership or" State banking institutions in the 
Federal Reserve System, with espcci?! reference to Section 2."iS. { thereof. 
A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
It is understood that 
significant changes in the proposed 
management of the hank, prior to opening for business, will be subject 
to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve Bank. 

174 
Burlington Bank and Trust Company 
-2-
l£ at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter-
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of auv documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
wh-ther such'change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board of 
Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of such 
resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount 01 
Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required 
reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within, which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 6 months from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time, When the Beard is advised that 
all of the requirements have been c.ov.plled with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find member-
ship in the Svs tern beneficial and your relations with the Reserve Bank 
pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad to assist 
you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve Systemana 
at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means for making 
the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tyijian Smith 
Tynan Sm:i th 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

v-1 rr 
R D A R D • F G D V E ' . R N D R 3 
Item No 
or THE 
1/11/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• H R E ^ - V 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
• A ' l D N E S S 
O r n C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
vAN, 
T O T H E 
H O A R D 
January 11, 1973 
Central Penn National Bank 
One Belmont Avenue 
Bala Cynwydj Pennsylvania 
19004
 
1 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Central Penn National Bank, Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, and 
to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and net as a 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
It. is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping nay. 
at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
going permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
types of facilities, and after clue notice may be withdrawn cr modified, 
(2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits' in 
this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Section 213.7(a) or the^ex-
elusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b) , and (3) the fur-
ther condition that adequate information covering the branch's operation, 
will be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
Board and ics accredited representatives. The Board should be promptiy 
informcd of any modification in the, branch's methods of operation, in-
cluding changes iu any contract under which services are supplied to 
the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for busi-
ness on or before February 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall be 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 

176 
Central Pena National Bank 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia when, the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limita-
tions on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and con-
tinues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, neces-
s?.y purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
outside, the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwi.se) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit: restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in the con-
duct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidejir.es as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
TyiK-n Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
1/11/73 
J H C R E S S 
D T I C . I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 11, 1973 
Mercantile Trust Company National Association 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Mercantile Trust Company National Asso-
ciation, ("MTC"), St. Louis, Missouri, pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in 
Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, and to operate and main-
tain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of 
Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans cr deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that: there is to be no con-
tact; with the local public at the branch, and L'aat its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject tc (1) a continuing review 
of these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
or modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
without benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii.) of 
Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate informa-
tion covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your 
head office and will be available to the Board and its accredited 
representatives. The Boar.a should be promptly informed of any 
modification in the branch's methods of operation, including changes 
in any contract under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Fermissi on to establish the proposed branch is also granted 
subject to the condition that MTC shall liquidate its Nassau branch 
within six months after opening the Georgetown branch. 

Mercantile Trust Company 
National Association 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before February 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Georgetown.
 
1 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
cf the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any 
limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regula-
tion Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to 
the reserve requirements of Regulation D e 
The general purpose of 
these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks 
to compete abroad with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has 
long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve Svstei 
to discourage deposits by United States residents ac foreign branches 
of United States'banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, n e c e s s a r y purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of'the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the bal-
ance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in 
the conduct cf the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed 
on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood that any investment required will be made within the For-
eign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

J* iii m -
• K r ^ V 
179 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
' ' .XV* * 
• ^ t ' ^ V ^ ^ S * - 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
1/11/73 
A D D R E S S 
D F f I C I A L 
C O f S t S r J O N D E N C E 
~>
v
v.' ' 
TO THE DOAnO 
January 11, 1973 
American Fletcher National Bank 
and Trust Company 
Indianapolis, Indiana 
46204 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to American Fletcher National Bank and Trust Company, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
establish a branch in Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
£
nd of Regulation K . 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for business 
c
'n cr before February 1, 1.974, all rights granted hereby shall be deemed co 
have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will automatically 
terminate on thai: date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, wnen the branch is opened for business, furnishing infor-
mation as to the exact location of the branch. The Board should also be 
Promptly informed of any future change in location of the branch in 
Luxembourg City. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances 
or otherwise ) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
the'foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
VT
ith minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of pay-_ 
n
>ents, che above consent is given on the condition that 
the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed 
obtained outside the United States. Furthermore, it is 
the investment, required wil L DO made in conformity with 
Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its 
Very truly yours, 
in the conduct of 
on resources 
understood that 
the Foreign Credit 
affiliates. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

ISO 
B O A R D 
OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
.•'"oVc'oV ' • 
OF THE 
1/11/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
'0/&;•'.•<£' • ' ' ' 
• 
W A S H I N G T O N . 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O R N C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O E N U E 
w i l l 
m 
fURtS* 
' 
./<-5 
* 
T • 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 11, 1973 
Pr ovident National Bank 
Broad and Chest-nut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated November 30. 
1972, of Provident International Bank, New York, New York, and there 
is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation to 
exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the powers conferred by 
Section'25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Beard will 
issue its final'permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest In which is owned by 
citizens "of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
Stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 2 5 per cent 
has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has indivicually 
paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the paymenc or 
the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance 
with law. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Provident Inter-
national Bank will have no ceiling of its own under the Foreign #Credit 
Restraint Program and the foregoing approval is given on condition tha: 

Provident National Bank 
-2-
any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation will be made 
within the Guidelines as they apply to the foreign lending and 
investment activities of Provident National Bank and its affiliates 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y E T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 20S5I 
January 11, 1973 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated November 30, 1972, of PROVIDENT INTERNATIONAL BANK, duly 
filed with said Board of Governors, and that PROVIDENT INTERNATIONAL 
BANK is authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it 
by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Preserve System of a final permit generally to commence 
business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) and 
the rules and regulations of Lhe Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(Signed) Tynan S mith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
a F
'
 T H E
 
Item No. 6 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1/11/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P C N O C N C E 
TCI THE. 
[ I O A H D 
January 11, 1973 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
23 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
1001.5 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter o£ November 30, 1972 
the 
Board of Governors grants consent £o. your Corporation 
( MC-IFG ) , 
to purchase and hold all the shares of a l i f t e d U a D i U t y company 
("Limitada") , Sao Paulo, Brazil, at a cost or approximately$500 000 
provided $48,660 is invested within one year from the date of tars 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Limit: ad a by MG1FC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) 
That. M'JIFC shall not held, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Limitada if Limitada at 
any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
. permissible to s corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if Limitada establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
. • 
nr- f>l qpuhore 
in any manner, 
any operation in israzil 01 eisewnere, i- c y .,_T 
' 
which at the time would not be permissible to MGIl-G, 
(2^ 
ThM: when r e q u i r e d by the Board of Governors, MGIFC 
' will'furnish the Beard with such reports regarding 
the activities of Limitada as it may require from 
time to time; and 
O ) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Limitada 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation k an 
the same manner as if limitada were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
,'oOTCov 
fas 

184 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
Subiect to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by Limitada in Brazil in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the nroposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of Limitada-
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

185 
Item No. 7 
1/11/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f
or the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l 8
42( a)(3)) to acquire not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares 
The Lee County Bank, Fort Myers, Florida. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
r e d persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
v
ith § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
e
*pired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 12 banks with aggregate deposits of $573 
Million, representing 3.4 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
^ the State, and is the sixth largest banking organization and bank 
holding company in Florida. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, 
a d
justed to reflect all bank holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board through November 30, 1972.) Acquisition of Bank 
($83.4 million in deposits) would increase Applicant's share of commercial 
b
»nk deposits in the State by 0.5 percentage points and its ranking in 
State would be unchanged. 
Bank is t h e s e c o n d 
l a r g e s t of 11 banks c o m p e t i n g 
i n t h e Lee 
C o u n t y b a n k i n g m a r k e t a n d c o n t r o l s 
2 2 . 6 p e r c e n t o f m a r k e t 
d e p o s i t s . 

186 
-4-
Th 
e
 iargest and third largest banking groups in the market hold, 
r e s
pectively, 35,9 per cent and 17.7 per cent of the deposits in the 
m a
rket. Applicant's subsidiary bank located closest to Bank is 24 
m i l e s
 north of Bank, in Punta Gorda. It does not appear that any sig-
nificant existing competition between Bank and the subsidiaries of 
Applicant would be eliminated as a result of consummation of the pro-
P°sal, Furthermore, in view of the distances involved, the number of 
b a n k s
 located in intervening areas, the likelihood of additional 
n t
rants into the market (presently pending before appropriate regula-
°
ry a u t
horities are applications for the establishment of five <ie novo 
^
a
nks i n l g g County), and the State prohibition against branch banking, 
a
Ppear s unlikely that any significant competition between the 
a n
king institutions would develop in the future. It appears, there-
°
re
> that consummation of the proposal herein would neither eliminate 
^ i n g f u l existing competition nor foreclose significant potential 
0R
ipetition. Bank has been the least competitive of the major banks 
the lee County banking market. Affiliation with Applicant should 
^ k l e 
t Q 
c o m p e t e 
m o r e aggressively within the market. Additionally, 
Pproval will result in the severance of an existing affiliation between 
B
<mk 
Thus 
a
nd American Bank of Fort Myers, the smallest bank in the market. 
j approval of this application should have a procompetitive effect 
111 , 
the relevant market. On the basis of the record before it, the Board 
0 t l c
ludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have 
adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. 

-3-
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as generally satisfactory 
Q fi J 
consistent with approval of the application, particularly in the 
light of Applicant's commitment and program to strengthen the capital 
^ase of certain of its subsidiaries. Bank has experienced some capital 
FLJJJ management problems. Affiliation with Applicant will enable Bank to 
di* 
a w
 upon Applicant's managerial resources and should strengthen Bank's 
Management and condition and enhance its future prospects. 
Further-
°
re
, A p p l i C a n t has agreed to provide $2.0 million in equity capital to 
Bar
*k upon acquisition, and to convert $1.9 million of Bank's capital 
n
°
t e s i n t o
 capital stock. The banking factors lend weight for approval. 
e
 banking needs of the lee County market appear to be adequately 
e r
ved at the present time; however, Applicant proposes to improve, 
x
Pand, and revitalize those services Bank is offering to its community, 
^ hereby enable Bank to become once again a strong competitor. Con-
i z a t i o n s 
relating to the convenience and needs of the community to 
e
 served weigh in favor of approval of the application. It is the 
°
a r d
's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
9llcl sh
°uld be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
e a s
o n s summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 

188 
-4-
thls Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
^ d e r , unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 11, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
1
 chell, Daane, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor 
Ut
"i tinner. 

p 
1 
• 
: • 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
^ 
Item No. 8 
. 
1/11/73 
W ^ m k ' . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
,O^N^Kt'-y^Ck, .* 
TO THE BOARD 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
January 11, 1973 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
2 3
 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 1, 1971, the 
fcoerd of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("MGIFC"), 
t o
 purchase and hold up co all of the shares of First Arts Leasing 
Company, S„A 0, ("FALCO"), Brussels, Belgium, at a cost of approxi-
mately BFr„2,038,000 (about $45,000), provided the shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of FALCO by MGIFC is granted subject to the following 
c
 ei td it ions: 
(1) That MGIFC shall not bold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FALCO if FALCO (a) at any 
time undertakes any operation other then the holding 
of the land and building subject to the full payout 
lease as set forth inMGIFC's application of 
December 1, 1971; or (b) FALCO continues to hold 
land and building ?n excess of two years following 
the termination of the lease; and 
(2) That, when required by the Boa-d of Governors, MGIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FALCO as it may require from time 
i 
to rime. 
The foregoing consent Is given on the condition that the 
-Vestment will be made witl in the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
a n
 they apply to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and its 
filiates* 
Very tru1y yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
