MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 19, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Amendment to Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidelines. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Systen; on Thursday, July 19, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Layton, Director of Equal Employment 
Opportunity 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Burstein, General Counsel, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis 
Mrs. Semia and Miss Brown, Technical Assistants, 
Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 

7/19/73 
-2-
St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas on July 12, 1973, of the rates 
on advances and discounts in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would 
be sent to those Banks. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its 
approval, on June 20, 1973, of the application of Deposit Guaranty 
Corp., Jackson, Mississippi, to acquire shares of Bridges Loan & 
Investment Company, Inc., also of Jackson. A copy of the order is 
attached under Item No. 1, along with a copy of the dissenting state-
ment by Governors Brimmer, Bucher, and Holland. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order to implement its 
approval, on June 20, 1973, of the application of The Alabama Financial 
Group, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to First National Bank of Anniston, Anniston, Alabama. A 
c°Py of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order to implement its 
approval, on June 20, 1973, of the application of Alabama Bancorpora-
tian, Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
t o The Alabama National Bank of Montgomery, Montgomery, Alabama. A 
copy 0f th e order is attached under Item No. 3, along with a copy of 
the dissenting statement by Governor Brimmer. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order to implement its 
aPproval, on June 20, 1973, of the application of First Alabama Bancshares, 

2 t > 9 3 
7/19/73 
-3-
Inc.} Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successor by 
merger to The City National Bank of Tuscaloosa, Tuscaloosa, Alabama. 
A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 4, along with copies 
of the dissenting statements by Governors Brimmer and Bucher. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter responding to the 
request of Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Banking and 
Currency for the Board's views on H.R. 19, a bill to amend the Federal 
Credit Union Act. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
duPont Trust. 
In a memorandum of July 16, 1973, the Legal 
Division recommended granting a request by the Trustees of the Estate 
°f Alfred I. duPont for an extension from 30 to 90 days in the time 
allowed for response to the Board's preliminary determination of July 5, 
19?3, that the Trust had not effectively divested control of banks in 
the holding company system of Florida National Banks of Florida, 
Jacksonville, Florida. 
Discussion centered upon a suggestion by one member of the 
Board that it might be preferable to allow only 60 days for response 
by the Trust. However, it was agreed that the requested 90-day period 
would be granted, with an admonition that no further extensions would 
b e permitted. Accordingly, the Board unanimously approved a letter to 
counsel for the Trust in the form attached as Item No. 6. 

7/19/73 
-4-
Report on competitive factors. The staff had drafted a report 
to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive factors involved 
the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of 
Farmers Bank & Trust Company, Indiana, Pennsylvania, by Pittsburgh 
National Bank, Jeanette, Pennsylvania. The conclusion would describe 
the competitive effect as "slightly adverse." The Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Cleveland had previously concluded that the proposed transaction 
would have "adverse" effects on competition. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed a consensus that the 
term "adverse" would be more appropriate. The Board unanimously approved 
the report, for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, with 
the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of Farmers Bank 
& Trust Company, Indiana, by Pittsburgh National Bank would 
eliminate little existing competition, although there is poten-
tial for greater competition between the two banks. Pittsburgh 
National Bank has the financial and managerial resources to 
establish de novo offices in the area served by Farmers Bank 
& Trust Company, and overall, the effect of the proposal on 
competition would be adverse. 
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines. In a memorandum 
o f July 13s 19739 Governor Brimmer recommended revision of the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines to provide a specific formula for 
restraint of foreign lending and investment by U.S. agencies and branches 
o f foreign banks. Drafts of an amendment and press release were attached. 
Discussion developed agreement that the specific formula should 
°nly apply to U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks that hold foreign 

7/19/73 
-5-
assets of $1 million or more, rather than $500,000 or more as provided 
in the draft. With this change, the Board unanimously approved the 
amendment and press release. Copies are attached under Item No. 7. 
National Credit Union Bank Act. With a memorandum of July 17, 
1973, the Division of Research and Statistics submitted a proposed 
response to the requests of Chairman Patman of the House Committee on 
Banking and Currency and the Office of Management and Budget for the 
Board's views on H.R. 7, which would establish a National Credit Union 
Bank. 
At today's meeting, a number of suggestions were made for a 
somewhat different approach in the letter. At the conclusion of the 
discussion, the Board unanimously approved the sending of a letter to 
Chairman Patman in the form attached as Item No. 8. A copy of the 
letter was sent to the Office of Management and Budget. 
First National City Corporation. Pursuant to the recommendation 
by 
the Division of Research and Statistics in a memorandum of July 3, 
•^73, the Board unanimously approved a study, expected to be completed 
about 60 days, to provide information related to questions raised 
a t the meeting on June 21 in connection with the application of First 
National City Corporation, New York, New York, to retain Advance Mortgage 
Corporation, Southfield, Michigan. The principal issues to be considered 
W e re (1) whether the proposed acquisition and others like it would lead 
t o an undue concentration of resources; and (2) whether independent 

7/19/73 
-6-
mortgage banking firms would disappear and, if so, the public interest 
implications of such a development. The memorandum noted that the 
Proposed scope of the study would involve expenses of approximately 
$2,000 for consultant fees, $600 for travel expenses for consultants, 
and $1,000 for travel expenses for Board staff. 
Northwest Bancorporation. At the meeting on July 12, 1973, 
the Board considered, but deferred action on, the application of 
Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire shares of 
T» G. Evensen & Associates, Inc., also of Minneapolis, an adviser on 
Municipal bond issuance. In a memorandum of July 10, 1973, the Board's 
staff had recommended approval, subject to a number of conditions that 
Were set forth in a memorandum of July 5 from the Legal Division. The 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had recommended denial based, in part, 
0 n data developed by an oral presentation regarding the application in 
October 1972. Competitors of the Evensen firm and one bank competing 
with applicant's subsidiaries, which had participated in the oral 
Presentation, subsequently renewed their request for a formal, trial-type 
hearing and moved that the Board rescind the provisions of Regulation Y, 
Bank Holding Companies, that generally authorized bank holding companies 
t o engage in municipal bond consulting. The Legal Division recommended 
denial of these requests. 
After a discussion that included comments by Mr. Burstein of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, the application was approved, 

7/19/73 
-7-
subject to the conditions recommended by the Legal Division. Governor 
Brimmer dissented from this action. It was understood that an order 
reflecting the majority decision would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration, and that a statement reflecting Governor Brimmer's 
dissent also would be prepared. The Board also denied the request of 
the protestants for a formal hearing and for invalidation of portions 
°f Regulation Y. 
First Finance Company. In memoranda of April 9, 1973, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended approval of (1) the applications of First Finance Company, 
Nevada Missouri, and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Mid-Continent 
Bancshares, Inc., also of Nevada, (a) to become bank holding companies 
through indirect acquisition of shares of Commercial Bank of Leadville, 
Leadville, Colorado; and (b) indirectly to acquire shares of Hugh E. 
Smith, Inc., also of Leadville, a general insurance agency; and (2) the 
aPplications of First Finance Company to continue to engage directly 
at*d indirectly through the retention of subsidiaries in consumer finance 
and credit insurance activities. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications and authorized 
issuance of orders reflecting these decisions. Copies of the orders 
a r e attached as Items 9 and 10. Pursuant to the recommendation of the 
Legal Division in a memorandum of July 13, 1973, the Board also authorized 
issuance of a determination pursuant to section 2(g)(3) of the Bank 

7/19/73 
-8-
Holding Company Act that First Finance Company is not in fact capable 
of controlling The First National Bank of Golden City, Golden City, 
Missouri. A copy of the order granting the determination, in the 
form sent to the Federal Register, is attached as Item No. 11. 
First Empire State Corporation. In a memorandum of July 3, 
19 73. Mr. Leavitt recommended approval of a request by First Empire 
State Corporation, Buffalo, New York, for an 18-month extension of 
time until March 31, 19 75, to sell additional common stock pursuant 
t o its commitment to the Board in connection with its acquisition of 
Hambro American Bank & Trust Company. Under the terms of its commitment, 
First Empire was to increase its common stock by $10 million within 
eighteen months from April 20, 19 72. 
After discussion, during which Governor Sheehan expressed a 
Preference for an extension of only 12 months, the Board unanimously 
-g££roved the applicant's request for an 18-month extension. A copy 
°f the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 12. 
Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company. In a memorandum of 
July 6, 19 73, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
aPproval of the application of Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, 
Buffalo, New York, for permission (1) to establish an Edge corporation 
in Buffalo to be called First Empire Overseas Corporation, and (2) for 
First Empire Overseas subsequently to acquire directly shares of First 
EmPire Financial Services Ltd. and to acquire indirectly shares of a 
Mortgage company, both to be established in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 

7/19/73 
-9-
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the application. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant, transmitting a preliminary 
Permit, is attached as Item No. 13. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Equal Employment Opportunity Report. With a memorandum of 
July 11, 1973, Mr. Melnicoff submitted the Fourth Semiannual Report 
o f the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity. 
In remarks at today's meeting, Mr. Layton emphasized that 
although three of the four goals established in the Board's Affirmative 
Action Program had been achieved, the desired level of minority employees 
grades FR-11 and above had not been reached. Mr. Layton outlined a 
forthcoming program to improve further the position of minority employees 
a t the Board. The main thrusts of the program would be (1) monthly 
computer printouts to facilitate monitoring of progress within the various 
divisions, and (2) conferences with the management of each division 
t o establish realistic targets. 
Governor Brimmer spoke in support of the program, noting that 
°nly two divisions had made significant progress in increasing their 
numbers of minority employees. He suggested that all division directors 
asked to review the progress being made within their divisions, that 
a n alternate for Mr. Layton be appointed in order to strengthen management 
^sources for the program, that greater opportunities be sought for 

7/19/73 
-10-
appointing women to higher grades, and that more intensive recruitment 
and training be undertaken. 
The Board accepted the report, a copy of which has been placed 
in the Board's files. 
Staff changes. In a memorandum of July 18, 1973, Governor Holland 
^commended the following staff changes: (1) promotion of E. Maurice 
McWhirter to Associate Director of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations at an annual salary of $33,000; (2) appointment of Warren N. 
Minami as Assistant Director, Division of Data Processing, at an annual 
salary of $29,700; and (3) change in title of Benjamin R. W. Knowles 
from Assistant Director, Division of Data Processing, to Systems Engineer, 
Planning Staff, with no change in annual salary. 
The Board unanimously approved these changes, effective upon a 
"late mutually agreeable to the respective Divisions, the Office of the 
Controller, and the Division of Personnel. (Note: The changes were 
made effective July 22, 1973.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2701 
Item No. 1 
7/19/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
DEPOSIT GUARANTY CORP. 
0rder Approving Acquisition of Bridges Loan & Investment Company, Inc. 
Deposit Guaranty Corp., Jackson, Mississippi, a bank holding 
Co®Pany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f o r the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
o f ^ e Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all the voting shares of 
t l d g e s L o a n & Investment Company, Inc., Jackson, Mississippi, a com-
PaiVy en8aged in the activities of making or acquiring, for its own 
Cc°unt or for the account of others, loans and other extensions of 
credit 
such as would be made by a mortgage company, and of servicing 
atls and other extensions of credit for any person. Such activities 
bee*i determined by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 
225.4(a)(1) and (3)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest 
factorSj W a s d u l y published (37 Federal Register 26060). The time for 
fill 
n8 comments and views has expired, and the Board has considered all 
n t s received in the light of the public interest factors set forth 
in 
§ 4<c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)). 
Applicant is a one-bank holding company controlling Deposit 
Guar*nty Bank ("Bank"), Jackson, Mississippi. Bank holds $540 million 
in <j 
y 
eP08its and is the largest commercial bank in the State, 
data are as of June 30, 1972. 

-2-
2702 
With 27 offices, Bank holds close to 14 per cent of total 
^Posits in commercial banks in the State. Bank operates in each of 
el§ht communities in Mississippi. During 1972 Applicant attempted to 
^tablish a subsidiary de novo to engage in mortgage banking in the Jackson 
area» but those efforts failed, and that subsidiary remains inactive. Eank 
°es* however, engage in mortgage lending for its own account at all of 
t s °fflees; its principal real estate lending activities are conducted 
l n tl*e Jackson area. 
Bridges Loan & Investment Company ("bridges") operates offices 
n New Orleans, Shreveport, and Lafayette, Louisiana, and in Gulfport and 
^Cks An 4 
m in Mississippi. Although Bridges is headquartered in Jackson, it 
that its major activity is conducted outside the Jackson area and 
that H* company*s share of activity in the Jackson area has been declining 
recent years. On the basis of mortgages serviced, Bridges ranks (as 
of J u 
n e 30, 1971) as the 117th largest mortgage company in the United 
Statue and the second largest mortgage company headquartered in Mississippi. 
it 
~s fiscal year ending May 31, 1972, Bridges shows a servicing volume 
Of 
YCJ-U million. 
and mortgage originations during that year of $53 million. 
Although Applicant's subsidiary bank engages to some extent in 
the S a 
e line of activity as Bridges, the record indicates that there is 
^ificant c o m p e t i t i o n between the two institutions. Of the four areas 
Mia 
lssippi where Bank has offices and Bridges offers its services, 
» cne Jackson area (Hinds, Rankin, and Madison Counties), the 

; 2703 
-3-
Gte enville area (Washington County), the Natchez area (Adams County), 
and tf» 
G McComb area (Pike County), it appears that, only in the Jackson 
area dr» u 
» o Bank and Bridges engage in real estate lending to a meaningful 
®»teiit. 
In the Jackson market, in the category of 1-4 family mortgage 
ioans b« L. 
» ank originated (during 1971) 65 loans with a value of $1.9 million, 
^P^fiSPnf'l 
n 
n8 2 per cent of dollar value of the 1-4 family loans made in 
area. During the same period, Bridges made 610 loans with a 
o f $12.3 million, representing about 13 per cent of the dollar value 
such i 
-^ans in the market. As a result of consummation of the proposal 
et*in A 
» applicant would control of 15 per cent of all 1-4 family mortgages 
in the market, making Applicant the largest lender in this category in the 
c^son 
^ 
Market. While these statistics appear to indicate that there is 
c°mpetition between the two institutions in the category of 1-4 family 
J-oans, the record shows that Bank makes conventional loans of 
M a tivelv u 
y short term and only to established customers of Bank, not to 
the 
8Gneral p u b l i C ) w h e r e a s Bridges offers FHA and VA mortgage loans to 
he r. 
general 
A Public. It appears, therefore, that no meaningful present 
f 
° n w o uld be eliminated between the two institutions in the 1-4 
mortgage market. 
(u 
^ 
B ° a r d f u r t h e r notes that Applicant has attempted unsuccess-
0 enter the Jackson area through the de novo establishment of 

" 2704 
a Mortgage subsidiary; there are at present four mortgage companies in 
tne area each of a size comparable to Bridges; there are a large number 
of Mortgage lenders in the area (25- of which six are banks, nine are 
^tgage companies, and ten are savings and loans associations); the 
Jackson market is attractive for entry by other firms of major capability. 
Th 
e Jackson area has enjoyed good population and economic growth in the 
Past» The population increased at a 7.4 per cent rate (240,000 to 258,000) 
m ^965 to 1970, while during the same period the per capita income rose 
AO n 
cent ($2,282 to $3,209), On the record herein, it appears that 
11 c°nsummation of the proposal, Applicant's market share would not be 
0 Sreat as to preclude the development of competition through the entry 
of 
mortgage lenders into the area nor would Applicant dominate the 
^tki 
Applicant's subsidiary bank and Bridges also make loans on 
ercial property and construction loans in the Jackson area. In the 
category during 1971, Bank made 37 loans with a value of some $2 
^lli 
ana Bridges made four loans with a value of $1.5 million. Applicant 
° U l d control less than 7 per cent of the loans on commercial property in 
Jackson area as a result of its acquisition of Bridges. With respect 
to 
of 
instruction loans during 1971, Bank originated 263 loans with a value 
Utlder $14 minion, and Bridges made 136 loans with a value of about 
In neither category (loans on commercial property or con-
C t lon loans) does it appear that Bridges is an aggressive competitor, 

2705 
-5-
nor tYin^ D 
iat Bridges' acquisition by Applicant would have a significantly 
e effect on competition in either product line in the Jackson market; 
er» since the Board considers 
the geographic market for these types 
loans to be larger than the banking market, the acquisition would not 
*e8mt "Jr. a n undue concentration of resources. 
In the course of its consideration of the application, the 
Bo^rd •u 
nas considered comments by the Department of Justice to the effect 
c°nsummation of the proposal would eliminate existing and potential 
CoBlPetiM 
clon by "combining a bank with almost half of the commercial bank 
s ^n Jackson with the largest independent mortgage company in the 
8ame g e o °8raphic area. . . . " 
However, in the Board's judgment, consummation 
of tlie 
Proposal is not likely to eliminate any significant present or 
P O t^ti a l „ 
-1- competition; Applicant will be one of a number of viable and 
G real estate lenders now competing in the Jackson area. Moreover, 
a r 
u l t of the vigorous growth in the Jackson area and the prospects 
c 
lriued 8r°wth, four of the largest mortgage companies in the country, 
8 the first, sixth, twenty-first, and twenty-fifth largest mortgage 
8 rirms in the United States, have opened offices in Jackson, and 
V
e 
is 
evidence that additional firms expect to enter the Jackson area, 
fact! 
ai-rs suggest that the combination of Bank and Bridges would not affect 
•/» co any significant degree, competition in the field of mortgage 
any relevant area. 

-6-
2706 
The Board further notes that Bridges is in need of additional 
apital to continue its operation, and Applicant has indicated that it 
Woui ^ 
Provide an additional $1,000,000 of equity capital to the company, 
and alon u 
help the company arrange additional lines of credit. Such action 
applicant should strengthen the financial position of Bridges, thereby 
nS it to continue the present scope of its mortgage lending activities 
and to 
remain an effective or strengthened competitor in its market and 
furth 
, 
tne economic development of the Jackson area. In addition, Bridges 
W°uld b 
e able to expand its construction lending and to engage in making 
entional residential loans, each of which requires additional capital 
*h*eh i 
s now unavailable to Bridges. Bridges' ability to expand into new 
real estate lending and to continue the present mortgage loan 
*Ct*viti 
should provide additional benefits to the communities served by 
^ 
* without financial assistance from Applicant, Bridges would, it 
tated, be required to close at least two of its five offices and 
^ 
-lc-s lending activities. 
Increased economic activity in the State 
Ssissippi, which is a State with low per family income, and in the relevant 
ies affected by the proposal is regarded by the Board as being in 
Publ ic interest and serving the convenience and needs of the communities 
M v 
d 
e * The aforestated public benefits lend weight for approval of the 
P p U C a t l n a n d tend to offset any adverse effect on competition that may 
M t 
f rom consummation of the proposal herein. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
n the r 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 

2707 
-7-
fav 
°rable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved subject to 
e conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's 
uthority to require such modification or termination of the activities 
^ a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the 
8 regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion 
f^g transaction shall be consummated not later than three months 
t e r tlle effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
&Ood e U S e by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant 
to 
legated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
[sEAL] 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
atld ShitlS f° r this" a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Hoi^ 
Voting against this action: Governors Brimmer, Bucher, and 

2708 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS BRIMMER, BUCHEk, AND HOLLAND 
We would disapprove the application of Deposit Guaranty 
Cov 
to acquire Bridges Loan and Investment Company. In joining 
largest commercial bank in Mississippi with the State's second 
*argest mortgage company, the proposal would eliminate existing com-
Petitlon in mortgage lending, further concentrate financial resources 
U the Jackson area, and foreclose the likely development of significant 
future 
Competition between the two institutions. 
In our view, the record 
° e s not disclose public benefits sufficient to outxaeigh the adverse 
^P^titive effects summarized herein. 
In analyzing similar proposals involving the acquisition by a 
hold* 
company uith a large banking subsidiary of a substantial mortgage 
*any operating in the same market as the bank, the Board has generally 
ncluded that consummation of such a proposal would eliminate -both existing 
and n 
U 
Potential competition. 
In the present case, the same conclusion 
Cached by the Department of Justice in its comments filed with the 
B°ard ^ connection with the pending application. On the facts presented 
thi case, Applicant's subsidiary bank is the largest bank in the State 
°out 14 per cent of commercial bank deposits, and Bridges is the 
J-argest mortgage company in Mississippi and the largest mortgage 
lender . 
the Jackson area. The evidence before the Board shows clearly 
^ j - r - 
— 
to a
 
e*8« application of First Tulsa Bancorporation, Tulsa, Oklahoma, 
Jujie??ire 
Investment Company, Tulsa, Oklahoma (1972 Federal Reserve 
317); 
and application of First Railroad Company of Georgia, Augusta, 
a* t o acquire Southern Finance Company, Augusta, Georgia (1973 Federal 
~ Ve-Bulletin 25). 

2709 
-2-
t h e r e is existing competition betx^een the two institutions in the 
ja , 
^ son area. Although the majority does not dispute this conclusion, an 
f f o r t is made to differentiate between the types of 1-4 family residential 
loatig m A 
maae by the two institutions—and thus to discount the extent to which 
Petition would be eliminated. Such analysis, in our view, does not 
f V e adequate weight to the fact that the institutions are alternative 
each may enter the other's field of activity; and that consummation 
of 
e Proposal reduces the number of potentially large mortgage lenders 
n tVle Jackson area. 
In our judgment, if the present proposal were denied, it is 
higui 
y likely that Applicant would attempt to enter the mortgage lending 
*®*ket tb 
trough some less anticompetitive means, such as by way of a foot-
acquisition. Applicant has apparently decided to expand its activities 
m°rtgage lending, as evidenced by its attempt to form a mortgage 
.iiS. novo. Denial of the present application would provide an 
^etvtt^ - 
\ 
tor Applicant to acquire one of the smaller mortgage companies 
in t h e 
Market or to acquire a larger mortgage company outside of that market, 
^ther of 
which would be clearly preferable to the present proposal from 
^ 
j-tive standpoint. 
As a result of the Board's action with respect 
the -i 
^ 
nstant application, such a procompetitive method of entry into 
ga&e lending by Applicant is eliminated. 
S0tP°ratiht 
n o t e d t h a t s u c h a c o u r s e was followed by Crocker National 
0fttgage r n a f t e r t h e B o a r d denied an application to acquire Ralph C. Sutro 
Bi ^ t l v i f 0 ^ ^ ^ ' a m o r t S a 8 e company engaged extensively in the same lines 
5r^£in 
a n d S a m e geographical area as Crocker. 
(1972 Federal Reserve 
^ ^ a ^ n 
Crocker subsequently filed an application and received 
t C0TnPanvrOVal ° n M a y 1 0* 1 9 7 3 > t 0 a c <l u i r e t h e Schumacher Mortgage Company, 
6llneSs
 y whose mortgage lending activities were conducted principally in 
vie. 

2710 
-21-
Unless the record shows that acquisition by Bridges by Appli-
0at* "can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such 
as heater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency" 
that outweigh the elimination of existing competition and the foreclosure 
°f aignifiCant potential competition (which we find present in the proposal), 
V e a re compelled to vote for denial of the application. The record before 
t h e Board provides little such evidence, apart from the ability of the 
applicant to provide Bridges with additional capital. We are not persuaded 
t h a t Applicant's proposal is the only feasible solution to Bridges' capital 
pr°blem. As a matter of fact, given Bridges' extensive real estate experience 
a n d substantial position in the mortgage market in Mississippi, it seems 
likely to us that Bridges would be an attractive acquisition for other 
that would not entail the adverse competitive effects of the present 
Pt°Posal. 
In our judgment, the adverse competitive effects likely to flow 
m Applicant's proposed acquisition have not been outweighed by sufficient 
*Vi(lence that significant benefits to the public will .result. Accordingly, 
^ v°uld deny the application. 
J U I* 30, 1973. 

2711 
1 • 'FEDERAL RESERVE. SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
7/19/73 
THE ALABAMA FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Alabama Financial Group, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, a 
b a n k folding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s aPplied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
( 1 2 
IT • S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
S h a r e s °f First National Bank of Anniston, Anniston, Alabama ("Bank1) 
6 bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except 
as a 
means to facilitate acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. 
C c°^ingl y > the pr0posed acquisition of shares of the successor 
r&ani2ation is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
0f Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
r e d 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
Cc°rdar\ce w l t h § 3 ( b ) o f fche A c t > 
T h e t i m e f o r f i l i n g comments and 
vjo s has expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
a U 
comments, including those of the Department of Justice, in light 
of t h 
n e factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842 (c)). 
Applicant is the fourth largest bank holding company in 
a m a' 
It controls four banks with aggregate deposits of approxi-
^ $515 
million, representing 8.4 per cent of the total commercial 
^posits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1972.) 

Z71Z 
- 2 -
Co 
nsurmaation of the proposal would not result in a significant increase 
in 
the concentration of banking resources in Alabama. 
Bank ($60.8 million in deposits) is the largest of nine banks 
located in Calhoun County and theCGity of Hefliij,holding approximately 
Per cent of the commercial bank deposits in that market. Applicant's 
U e a r e s t subsidiary office to Eank is its lead bank in Birmingham, 50 
* l l e s W est of Anniston. There is no significant existing competition 
between Bank and Applicant and, further, it is unlikely that such 
C° m p e t i tion would develop in the future in view of the distances involved, 
the T« 
^ n y intervening banks, and the restrictive branching laws of Alabama. 
Gover, the possibility of future competition,developing through de novo 
by Applicant is slight since the market has experienced population 
loss q4 
since I960 and is thus not now attractive for de novo entry. 
S i n g l y , competitive considerations are consistant with approval 
th* 
The Department of Justice has questioned the general effect 
that „ 
c°nsummation of the proposed transaction and certain other 
A c t i o n s proposed by other Alabama bank holding companies would 
have uP°n State-wide banking structure in Alabama, but has not asserted 
**at the proposed transaction xrould have an anticompetitive effect in 
th 
e Calhoun County banking market. For reasons specified in the Board s 
Otd 
e r approving the acquisition of shares of The City National Bank of 
Scaloosa by First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., the Board finds that 
of the proposed transaction would not lead to a lessening of 
at^i(je competition in banking. 

2713 
-3-
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
banking subsidiaries and Bank are considered generally satisfactory. 
Co 
nsiderations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
ajo 
insistent with approval of the application. Applicant proposes 
to install automated teller equipment, providing the community with 
2^hour-a-day deposit and withdrawal service, and it is expected that 
th 
e community would benefit from such an innovation. It is the Board's 
lllrl 
^ ^ t that consummation of the proposed transaction is in the public 
erest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the 
Masons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
thi 
S 0rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
thi 
8 °rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0t bV the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority 
By order of the Board of Governors9- 
effective July 19, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
1/ 
j. f 
... 
^ n l 0 t i n s f o r t h i s action', Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell 
trimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. 

o 714 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/19/73 
ALABAMA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Alabama Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, a bank holding 
°mPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
pPUed for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
42<a)(3)), to acquire all the voting shares (less directors1 qualify-
shares) of the successor by merger to The Alabama National Bank of 
Montp 
°*ery, Montgomery, Alabama ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is 
to be m 
erged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the 
n o f B a n k * 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares 
of 
successor organization is treated herein as the proposed 
^uisitton of shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity to permit 
intere8ted Persons to submit comments and views has been given in 
ance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
has 
expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
^ 
c°tnments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
t h e Act (12 u.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls five banks with total aggregate deposits 
million, representing 14.3 per cent of total deposits of 
,nunerciai 
banks in Alabama and is the largest banking organization 
t a te. 
Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $71.1 million) 
n o t significantly increase the concentration of banking 
Ulrces in Alabama. 
P ^ i T b - — 
Co'11"1118 d a t a a r e a S 0 f D e c e m b e r 31> 1972, and represent bank 
°u8h M a m p a n y f o r m a t i o n a 
acquisitions approved by the Board 
y 
, 1973. 
Co 
the - 
y 
V°Uld 

- 2 -
2715 
The Department of Justice ("Justice") submitted comments con-
cerning this application similar to those it filed in the applications 
o f First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., to acquire The City National Bank 
°f Tuscaloosa and The Alabama Financial Group, Inc., to acquire First 
National Bank of Anniston. It was the view of Justice that approval 
o f this application would contribute to a situation where only four 
State-wide banking organizations would exist in Alabama. 
Applicant noted in its reply to the comments of Justice that 
t h e bank to be acquired is a distant third in the relevant market which 
i s dominated by two much larger banks. Approval of the acquisition 
v°uld, therefore, increase competition by making Bank a stronger com-
petitor. Applicant also noted in its reply that even if the three 
Alabama applications commented on by Justice were approved by the 
B°ard, there would remain numerous independent banks of sufficient 
8 i z e to form valuable components of additional State-wide holding 
c°tnpanies. 
Bank is the third largest of nine banks located in the 
Relevant banking market with about 12 per cent of the deposits in 
th 
2/ 
market. 
There is no substantial existing competition between 
a nV of Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Bank, primarily due to 
the fact that the closest banking subsidiary to Bank is approxi-
mately 8 0 m i l e s d i stant. Furthermore, in view of the distances 
^e~~relevant banking market is approximated by the Montgomery 
^andard Statistical Area ("SMSA"), which consists of Elmore and 
°nt8omery Counties. 

2716 
-27-
involved and Alabama's restrictive branching laws, there is little 
Probability of substantial future competition developing between 
Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Bank. The largest bank in the 
market (a subsidiary of the second largest holding company in Alabama) 
controls about 44 per cent of market deposits and the second largest 
bank in the market controls about 24 per cent of market deposits. 
Applicant would not be obtaining a dominant position in the market, 
and several independent banks remain available for acquisition by 
°ther holding companies* 
Finally, Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
should enable the latter to compete more vigorously with these two 
large banks and could lead to the eventual deconcentration of the 
market. 
Applicant has a nonbanking subsidiary, Engel Mortgage 
Company ("Engel"), with an office in Montgomery, which competes to 
a limited degree with Bank in the origination of mortgage loans. 
En8el primarily deals in mortgages on one-four family residences; 
Bank makes but few loans in this product line. Bank has a substan-
tial volume of construction loans; however, Engel makes few loans 
o f this type. Their combined share of the market for construction 
l°ans is negligible within the appropriate regional or national 
^rket. Neither Engel nor Bank is active in the origination of 
m°rt8ages on income-producing property. Moreover, there are ten 
°ther mortgage companies and three savings and loan associations 
Plus the remaining commercial banks which comprise alternative 

2717 
-28-
aources of mortgage credit. In the Board's view, consummation of this 
transaction would not have a substantially adverse effect oil competi-
tion in any relevant product line of mortgage banking. Nor would it 
lead to a diminution of State-wide competition in banking, for 
Masons articulated in the Board's Order of this date involving the 
aPPlication of First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., to acquire The City 
National Bank of Tuscaloosa. Based on the facts of record, the 
Board concludes that competitive considerations are consistent with 
aPProval of the application. 
The financial condition, managerial resources and future 
Prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are generally 
Satisfactory and consistent with approval of the acquisition. Fac-
tors relating to the convenience and needs of the community to be 
S e r v e d lend some weight for approval of the application since Appli-
Cant will be able to provide international banking services in the 
Montgomery SMSA, a service which is not presently offered there. 
is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed trans-
ition would be in the public interest and that the application 
8h°uld be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f°r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 

, . 2718 
-29-
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
fche Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
delegated authority.. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 19, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
j i 
t-' Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
a a n e , Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Voting against this action: 
Governor Brimmer. 

2719 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I dissent from the Board's approval of the acquisition by 
First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., of The City National Bank of Tuscaloosa, 
and from the Board's approval of the acquisition by Alabama Bancorpora-
tion of The Alabama National Bank of Montgomery. 
I disapprove of the 
fifth and sixth largest independent banks in Alabama being absorbed 
by the first and second largest bank holding companies in Alabama, 
respectively. 
I have previously noted my concern with the banking structure 
in Alabama. 
(See, for example, my dissents in the applications of 
Central and State National Corporation of Alabama to form a bank hold-
ing company, 1971 Federal Reserve Bulletin 860, and The Alabama Finan-
cial Group to acquire The First National Bank of Dothan, 1972 Federal 
Reserve. Bulletin 822.) 
Banking developments in Alabama since the time of my two 
Previous dissents have not lessened my concern. On the contrary, it 
becomes clearer than ever to me that Alabama is well on its way to 
becoming a State where four State-wide organizations will dominate 
fche banking scene. The majority refers to a recent approval of the 
formation of a fifth bank holding company. However, I am not so 
°Ptimistic as the majority apparently is concerning the future 
development of such holding company, or any others that might be 
formed, if we continue to permit the big four to acquire the large 
independent banks in the State. Such acquisitions as those approved 
bere will hinder other bank holding companies in their efforts to 

-31-
2720 
compete with the big four. Moreover, the approvals granted today are 
also likely to lead to the situation, noted by the Department of Justice, 
in which four sizable organizations confront each other in the large 
local markets within Alabama and adopt similar policies or practices. 
need not be a cynic to believe that such a structural situation is 
likely to assure that any benefits produced will accrue to private 
Parties rather than to the public generally. 
I concur in Governor Bucher's Statement that denial should 
b e voted with regard to the acquisition of The City National Bank of 
Tuscaloosa on the basis of an analysis of the local market. The 
Tuscaloosa market is one of the most attractive markets - if not 
the most attractive market - in Alabama. Surely the second largest 
banking organization in the State should enter such a promising area 
through de novo means instead of acquiring a bank having almost 40 
P e r cent of the market. Similarly, I believe that the local market 
situation in Montgomery is such that the largest bank holding com-
pany i n Alabama should enter such market through de novo means or 
•.L 
r°ugh the acquisition of a bank in the market smaller than the 
tlUrd largest organization. The Montgomery market is an attractive 
° n e for de novo entry, and Applicant (absent the Boardfs approval 
this case) would probably follow that route. 
On the basis of my concern and fears regarding the evolving 
Sb te-wide structure in Alabama - and also on the basis of my analysis 

; 2721 
-32-
of the local market situations involved - I dissent from the Board's 
approval of the acquisition of The Alabama National Bank of Montgomery 
by Alabama Bancorporation and the acquisition of The City National 
Bank of Tuscaloosa by First Alabama Bancshares, Inc. 
July 19, 1973 

2722 
Item No. 4 
7/19/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST ALABAMA BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)), to acquire the successor by merger to The City National Bank 
Tuscaloosa, Tuscaloosa, Alabama ("Bank"). The new national bank into 
which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means to 
facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization is 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^ 3(b) of the Act. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
Il8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls five banks, with aggregate deposits of 
^Proximately 
million, representing about 9-1/2 per cent of total 
^Posits in commercial banks in Alabama and is the second largest bank-
i n8 organization in Alabama. Acquisition of Bank (deposits of about 
m i H i o n ) would not increase significantly the concentration of 
ba 
^ 
nking resources in the State. 
^ ^ banking data are as of December 31, 1972, unless otherwise noted, 
include formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
3!, 1973. 

_ 27 
- 2 -
The Department of Justice ("Justice") commented upon this 
aPplication, as well as pending applications by two other bank holding 
2/ 
companies to acquire banks in Alabama. 
Briefly, Justice is con-
cerned that four large State-wide banking organizations control over 
per cent of deposits in commercial banks in the State of Alabama, 
that such organizations are the most likely potential entrants into 
local markets throughout the State, and that, if these three acquisi-
tions are approved, there would be only a dozen banks remaining in 
Alabama of a size large enough ($30 million according to Justice) to 
S e r v e as the nucleus of an additional State-wide organization. 
Further, 
Justice asserts that such a limited State-wide banking structure could 
Produce a situation whereby only a few organizations confront each other 
local markets throughout Alabama, thereby leading to a tendency on 
the part of such organizations to develop parallel practices in such 
Markets to the advantage of the companies involved but not necessarily 
f o r the public good. 
In its response to Justice's comments, Applicant asserts, 
among other things, that Alabama needs larger banking structures in 
°rder to provide adequate services to large businesses in the State and 
t o compete with much larger out-of-State organizations which seek busi-
ness in Alabama. Applicant further states that Justice has ignored 
t h e Public benefits that would be provided the Tuscaloosa area by 
c°nsummation of the proposal herein. 
& 
Alabama Bancorporation to acquire The Alabama National Bank of 
°ntgomery and The Alabama Financial Group, Inc., to acquire First 
ational Bank of Anniston, 

2724 
Bahk is the second largest of thrfee bartka located in the 
3/ 
relevant market and cbnttols about 39 per cent of deposits there*-
^nere ij* no substantial existing competition between any of Applicants 
inking subsidiaries and Bank. Applicant's subsidiary closest to Bank 
1 8 approximately 45 miles distant. Nor is there a reasonable proba-
bility of substantial future competition developing between any of 
Applicant1s banking subsidiaries and Bank, particularly in view of 
the distances between Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank and 
Alabama's branching laws which preclude Applicant's subsidiaries from 
Ranching into Tuscaloosa and Bank from branching into the markets of 
Applicant's subsidiaries. Although the Tuscaloosa market appears 
attractive for de novo entry, Applicant has indicated it would not 
e n t e r hy this means and, in the Board's opinion, market conditions 
e not such as to warrant precluding Applicant's representation in 
th 1 
8 market through the acquisition of an existing bank. Other hold-
in 8 companies remain as potential entrants into the market through 
d(5 n 
.-Ovo means, and Applicant would not obtain a dominant position 
lri the market through acquisition of Bank. The largest bank in the 
arket has almost $20 million more in deposits than Bank and appears 
to K e a viable, strong competitor and is likely to remain so even if 
Applir n t acquires Bank. Moreover, the smallest bank in the market 
s shown a good growth rate since its establishment in 1968 and 
the^e i 
1 8 no indication that it would not be able to compete in those 
8 suitable to its size. The Board concludes that approval of the 
cluisition would not have substantial adverse effects on future 
P e t i t i o n 
in the Tuscaloosa market. 
n e relevant banking market is approximated by Tuscaloosa County. 

,1 2725 
-36-
Moreover, the Board believes that the acquisition of Bank by 
Applicant will not necessarily increase the rigidity of the Alabama 
inking structure. The Board recently has approved the formation in 
Alabama of a fifth multibank holding company which has over $300 million 
it/ 
in deposits. 
However, apart from the prospect of holding companies 
in the process of being formed in Alabama, the Board is not persuaded 
that the existence of only the present four State-wide banking organizations 
in Alabama is so anticompetitive as to require denial of all bank 
acquisitions by those organizations. The fear expressed by Justice 
that parallel policies will develop in various local markets through-
0 ut the State on the basis of the four large organizations facing one 
another is based on speculation. There is no evidence in the record 
that any such policies have developed or will develop. Alabama is a 
State with low per capita income. The Board believes the development 
o f larger banking organizations would be beneficial for the State 
since they would be able to provide better service for existing busi-
nesses within the State and perhaps attract substantial new business. 
Approval of this application will enable Applicant to bring its 
expertise and greater service capability to an Alabama location with good 
growth prospects and thereby make that location attractive for the 
large customers and industries which Alabama is seeking to attract. 
° n the basis of the facts of record, the Board concludes that com-
petitive considerations are consistent with approval of the appli-
Cation. 
& 
See Board Order of June 15, 1973. 

-5-
2726 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and future 
Prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are regarded 
a s satisfactory. Applicant proposes to increase Bank's capital and 
this aspect lends some support for approval of the acquisition. 
Moreover, Applicant would be in a position to provide Bank with a 
source of management personnel, which is particularly important due 
t o the fact that two senior officials of Bank have recently left 
the Bank. Factors related to the convenience and needs of the com-
munity to be served are consistent with approval and may lend some 
*eight for approval, since Bank, after affiliation with Applicant, 
be in a better position to serve the larger businesses that 
have recently located in the Tuscaloosa area. It is the Board's 
judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction would be in 
t h e Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for 
r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
ective date of this Order, or (b) later than three months 
aft 
e r the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Rnj-i 
°f Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 19, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Daa
 Votl-Ug for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
gr.ne> Sheehan, and Holland. Voting against this action: Governors 
lnu*er and Bucher. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BklMMER 
27 
I dissent from the Board's approval of the acquisition by 
F i r s t Alabama Bancshares, Inc., of The City National Bank of Tuscaloosa, 
and from the Board's approval of the acquisition by Alabama Bancorpora-
tion of The Alabama National Bank of Montgomery. 
I disapprove of the 
fifth and sixth largest independent banks in Alabama being absorbed 
b y t h e first and second largest bank holding companies in Alabama, 
respectively. 
I have previously noted my concern with the banking structure 
i n A l a b a m a . 
(See, for example, my dissents in the applications of 
Central and State National Corporation of Alabama to form a bank hold-
l n g Co™pany, 1971 Federal Reserve Bulletin 860, and The Alabama Finan-
C l al Group to acquire The First National Bank of Dothan, 1972 Federal 
R e s e r v e Bulletin 822.) 
Banking developments in Alabama since the time of my two 
Previous dissents have not lessened my concern. On the contrary, it 
becomes clearer than ever to me that Alabama is well on its way to 
Gc°ming a State where four State-wide organizations will dominate 
the 
e banking scene. The majority refers to a recent approval of the 
° r m a ti°n of a fifth bank holding company. However, I am not so 
°Ptimistic as the majority apparently is concerning the future 
eVelopment of such holding company, or any others that might be 
°rmed, if w e continue to permit the big four to acquire the large 
itid 
ePendent banks in the State. Such acquisitions as those approved 
her© 
' ' v,:" vi" 
, » 
e will hinder other bank holding companies in their efforts to 

2728 
-2-
compete with the big four. Moreover, the approvals granted today are 
also likely to lead to the situation, noted by the Department of Justice, 
l n which four sizable organizations confront each other in the large 
l°cal markets within Alabama and adopt similar policies or practices. 
0r*e need not be a cynic to believe that such a structural situation is 
Ukely to assure that any benefits produced will accrue to private 
Parties rather than to the public generally. 
I concur in Governor Bucher's Statement that denial should 
b e voted with regard to the acquisition of The City National Bank of 
L»V 
uscaloosa on the basis of an analysis of the local market; The 
scaloosa market is one of the most attractive markets - if not 
th 
e most attractive market - in Alabama. 
Surely the second largest 
b a n k m g organization in the State should enter such a promising area 
r°ugh de novo means instead of acquiring a bank having almost 40 
po 
cent of the market. 
Similarly, I believe that the local market 
Sltuation in Montgomery is such that the largest bank holding com-
P a n y i n Alabama should enter such market through de novo means or 
thr ° ugh the acquisition of a bank in the market smaller than the 
•.I . 
r d largest organization. The Montgomery market is an attractive 
° n e for de novo entry, and Applicant (absent the Board's approval 
in this case) would probably follow that route. 
On the basis of my concern and fears regarding the evolving 
Sfr G-wide structure in Alabama - and also on the basis of my analysis 

_ 2 7 2 9 
-3-
the local market situations involved - I dissent from the Board's 
approval of the acquisition of The Alabama National Bank of Montgomery 
by 
Alabama Bancorporation and the acquisition of The City National 
Bank of Tuscaloosa by First Alabama Bancshares, Inc. 
July 19, 1973 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BUCHER 
I dissent from the approval by the Board of the acquisition 
o f the sixth largest independent bank in Alabama by the second largest 
holding company in the State. 
Economic trends and conditions suggest that the Tuscaloosa 
market is one of the few markets in Alabama attractive for de novo 
entry. Some of these factors are: 
the population per banking office 
deposits per bank ratios are higher than the State average, the 
continued growth of the University of Alabama is projected, and new 
businesses are locating in this already diversified market. More-
0ver, the Tuscaloosa market has only three banks. Bank, together 
w ith the largest bank, controls over 90 per cent of the deposits. 
existence of this localized market power should provide another 
Possible incentive for outside banking organizations to enter. 
G ive n these factors, Tuscaloosa appears to be a desirable location 
an aggressive and innovative de novo bank. 
Applicant is clearly one of the most likely entrants. 
0 n e of Applicant's largest banks is located to the east in the 
adJacent Birmingham market. Consummation of the proposal will not 
° n ly reinforce the concentration in Tuscaloosa by making it more 
difficult for other organizations to compete with the two largest, 
b ut also will contribute to the concentration of banking resources 
V i thin this region of the State. First Alabama Bancshares has the 
t e s o U r c € g available to support a de novo entry while it establishes 

market share. Surely the community, particularly locally limited 
customers would be benefited by additional banking alternatives and 
the pursuit of market share by aggressive de novo entrants. I 
believe a high level of competition ultimately assures an optimum 
flow of public benefits. 
I am additionally concerned with the continuing trend in 
Alabama whereby four large holding companies seem likely to dominate 
State banking. Bank is one of the few large remaining independent 
banks in Alabama that would be attractive for acquisition by a hold-
ing company other than the big four. I feel that it should remain 
P l i a b l e for such acquisition. The majority points out that the 
B°ard has recently approved a fifth holding company in Alabama and 
^bere i s g o m e indication that others are in the process of being 
formed. However, if we continue to approve acquisitions by the 
b i8 four of banks of the size and market share of Bank, the oppor-
tunity Will be impaired for such new holding companies to grow 
a n d to approach the big four in size and therefore in competitive 
vigor. 
In one of the earliest Alabama cases, the Board recognized 
^ e desirability of permitting the formation of additional holding 
companies. The Board said, in the application of Central State 
National Corporation: "The Board believes it to be in the economic 
interest of the State of Alabama to permit a combination of the 
S o u r c e potential of State National with the aggressive innovative 

-3-
Ki < O/C 
character of Central for the purpose of improving the competitive environ-
ment of one of the State's largest banking organizations. At the same 
-time, the opportunity for moderate and smaller size banking institutions 
In the State to form regional affiliations which would encourage further 
^concentration at other levels of commercial bank competition will be 
preserved." 
(Emphasis added.) (57 Federal Reserve Bulletin 860, 863 
(1971)) In my judgment, the Board in this case is considering only 
the philosophy espoused in the first quoted sentence and giving no 
to that of the second quoted sentence. 
I am in sympathy with the majority view that Alabama is a 
relatively depressed area economically. However, I am not persuaded 
that the concentration of the banking resources of Alabama among four 
large organizations will alleviate this situation. Perhaps, the 
a8gregation of financial resources, to some extent, would enable 
those large institutions to enter the national market for the 
financing of large corporate enterprises, although presently there 
i s no evidence to support this view. However, the Board must also 
f°cus on other public benefits. An optimally competitive structure 
°u8ht to insure an adequate flow of funds to consumers and small 
Rainess at reasonable rates. Thus, the Board should be conscious 
the possibility of increased stagnation that may be brought 
akout by excessive concentration in an already depressed State. 
* feel that the formation and development of additional bank 

1 2733 
-4-
M d t n g companies is likely to provide greater competitive vigor in 
Alabama and this would be beneficial. For these reasons I respectfully 
dissent from approval of the application. 
July 19, 1973 

l i l r S M : 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 
7/19/73 
July 20, 1973 
^he Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
Mouse of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
^ a r Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to" your request for the Board's 
views 011 H.R. 19, a bill Droposing a number of amendments to"the 
Federal Credit Union Act. 
As you know, the provisions of H.R. 19 are concerned 
exclusively with" the organization and internal operation and 
Management of Federal credit unions. 
Inasmuch as these provisions 
not relate" directly to- the Board's areas of responsibility, we 
have no comment to offer with respect to this bill. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2735 
Item No. 6 
7/19/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
AODSE5S nFF'ICIAL. CORHESPDNDCNCE 
TO HIE HC1AHO 
July 19, 1973 
Frederick II. Kent, Esq. 
870 Florida First National Bank Building 
Jacksonville, Florida 
32202 
Dear Mr. Kent: 
This is in response to your letter of July 10, 1973, requesting, 
on behalf of the Trustees of the Estate of Alfred I. duPont, an extension 
of the time required for the Trust to respond to the Board's letter oC 
July 5, 1973 5 notifying the Trust that the Board has made a preliminary 
determination that the Trust has not made an effective divestiture of 
control of the banks in the holding company system of Florida National 
batiks of Florida, Jacksonville, Florida. 
Th* Board has considered the facts presented in your letter 
relating 
the present unavailability of certain of. the Trustees anc. 
has granted your request to increase the time required for a response 
to the Board's determination from 30 to 90 days. The Board does not 
expect to grant further extensions of time for this purpose, ana it 
l°oka forward to receiving a full response from the Trustees on of 
before October 8, 1973. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3 
$ I i i t k 
% I I I 27i^f> 
n i 
1 
i 
J SSH W W * / / 
... 
- . 
. . „ .... 
Item No. 7 
7/19/73 
°r Mediate release 
J u l y 1 9 > 
1 9 7 3 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today issued 
arifying statement to the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
to provide a specific formula for restraint of foreign lending and 
niant" by the U. S. agencies and branches of foreign banks. 
The amendment requests agencies and branches not to increase their 
V s t 
V i 
ePt 
8 n assets covered by the program above the levels of June 30, 1973, 
t o the extent that they obtain the additional funds outside the 
°tates. The amendment will not change the degr'ee of restraint on 
restitutions but is designed to ensure uniformity in observance of 
Program. 
Agencies and branches had not been assigned specific ^lending 
mder the VFCR program, as was the case with U. S. banks. 
Instead, 
th 
'6 j, 
G asked to conform to the spirit of the Guidelines and to consult with 
, 
- Reserve Bank in their district. As activity by the agencies and 
h 
, 
as grown over the years, the lack of a specific guideline has pro-
d s0 
N0p 
* uneven^iess in observance of the VFCR and prompted the Board to 
formula announced today. 
aHri 
T*le f o n u u l a ties the restraint to the amount of funds the agencies 
ll, s
 
l G s m a y obtain from their parent banks and other foreigners. 
Unlike 
^ 
» 
agencies and branches rely mainly on foreign sources of funds 
h , 
ranking activities. 
\ u
 
A t t h e er|d of Hay, 1973, the latest date for which complete data are 
» cnere were 64 U. S. agencies and branches of foreign banks with 

\ 
2737 
- 2 -
^lOOO.OOO or more in foreign assets. These institutions, located in the New 
CK area and on the Pacific Coast, had total foreign assets of about $6,2 
bUli 
types 
as of the end of Hay. Of this amount about* $3.6 billion v/as of 
subject to restrain under the VFCR Program. In the approximately year 
^ a half since data were first collected on the foreign lending and invest-
ment 
activities of these institutions, their foreign assets -- total and of 
^PG subj ect to Guideline restrains -- have approximately doubled. 
The text of the amendment is attached. 
- 0 -

Amendment to the Revised Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
for Banks or Nonbank Financial Institutions 
2738 
u» 
A- CEILINGS FOR NONEXPORT FINANCING 
9. U. S. Agencies and Branches of Foreign Banks 
* 
> 1 • |<j 
^ 
ceiling of a U.S. agency or branch of a foreign bank that 
^"r^XtQOOj.pOO or more in foreign assets (whether or not subject to restraint 
-h^LCuidelines) will be equal, to 
its holdings of foreipn assets on June 30, 1973, of types 
subject to restraint under the Guidelines; less any decrease 
jor plus any increase) in its liabilities to foreigners subsequent 
to June 30," 19 73. 
H i 
^
a 
JSubsequent J.o that date, any increase in such assets should be 
^Ic-as—^S£checl by an increase in foreign liabilities; correspondingly., any 
Uabi1 J-ties should be accompanied by at least an equal 
in 
--^LjHich assets. 
' APPLICABILITY TO BANKS AND BANK-RELATED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
*' General 
^Ltp ij Q 
The Guidelines are applicable to all U.S. banks .../_, 
an(} branches of foreign banks. 
E. 
C0NF0?UMITY WITH OBJECTIVES OF GUIDELINES 
Banks without Ceilings 
thG °bjective 
A bank that has not adopted a celling will be acting in conformity 
s of the Guidelines .... 
ILS.t__age.ncv or branch or a foreign bank that has not adopted 
c 
acting in conformity with the objectives of the Guide lines 
^
| 
f
o
r
G
i
r 
" 
.gn asr.ecs; of types subject to restraint do not 
sj , 
(b) if those foreign assets are otherwise in conformi tv 
t^pT^A 1* f' ~1 ~ 
— 
— 
: 
: 
: 
~ 
^ ^ ^ - - S ^ U n e s . 
A U.S. agency or branch of a foreign bank, regardless 
•^^s^st i 
iLii.'y * agency or orancn ox a loreign oanK, i^atuit';^ 
'jVf^L 
wh.Jn'it" commences operation, that holds $1,000,000 or 
^^^(^^j-^L-iLssets (whether or not subject to restraint under the Guidelines! 
v i j ^ o h a v e 
a monthly ceiling in accordance wi th section A-9 and 
-^-ggy reasonable effort to ensure that its foreign assets and 

I. • 
\ 
# 
2739 
- 2 -
fe^glgn liabilities are kept throughout the monthly reporting periods, 
^ p 
""*' "'' "" "' " " 
1 1 
••""" 
• <• 
" • ••1 
•» 
.... •'• ••... 
— • • 
..in - .. - * i, - 
- -' « 
as on the and-of-the month reporting dates, at levels consistent 
"•^•iL.lts ceiling. 
j'ach agsncy and branch of a foreign bank may adopt 
Sa^ndivid ual calling;. Alternatively, one or more agencies or branches 
:hey 
>—iL£artjcular foreign bank may consolidate callings to which 
^llj-Lba entitled. Once consolidated, they should henceforth report 
-S-^nit und er the Guidalines. 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
, 
2 7 4 0 
Item No. 8 
July 24, 1973 
C 
\ Hon 
b l e W r i g h t 
P a t m a n 
HoUse
 
e e 
Banking and C u r r e n c y 
^shin 
R eP r e sentatives 
l*gton, 
C b 
z o 5 1 5 
V 
* ^nairman: 
*biU toiting ^ 
r e s P o n s e to your request for comments on H. R. 7, 
^t 
. C r e a t e a National Credit Union Bank. 
The Board believes 
to 
ot' establishing a central fund for provision of assistance 
comi 
^ Sa^ U? i o i l s fa-ciug temporary liquidity problems has merit. 
At 
5ll0nCn6 t l m ° ' however, the Board feels that H. R. 7 has significant 
l ngs and therefore would not recommend enactment in its 
R 
^ttpv 4 
. 
treats three aspects of the bill the Board finds troublesome: 
c 
1 o f the Bank's proposed powers; the creation of a new agency 
P°siti0n 
union field; and the effects of the Bank on the competitive 
credit unions. 
c 
ehol j °'y t e n d t o h a v e rather homogeneous memberships, with 
a n c l borrowers often employees of the same organization, 
d ^ C W U S 
C a n 
subject to temporary liquidity pressures. 
A 
8 
Cultie 
° r °ther special circumstance can create severe 
t^Probl* 
^ c e n t r a i lending fund to assist credit unions with 
f^Wdiv, e m s 
c o^ld be a considerable social benefit. 
However, 
^ 
it: th 
°ther authority provided by H. R. 7 does not appear 
th^ B a n k to this function. 
In particular, the bill appears to 
ii^^ioi^ 
to make longer-term loans to credit unions for 
C ^ c ^ s 
S u c h l o a n s 
m i S h t b c desirable in specific 
e r ° a credit union serves low-income persons who have 
^ 
S l 6 S S tC> C1*edit markets, but the Board would see no general 
credit in light of the demonstrated ability of credit 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-27 
Unions to expand their lending activities based on the resources of 
^heir °wn members. 
Since I960, the credit union industry has 
l ncreased its share of the rapidly growing total of consumer instal-
ment credit outstanding from 9. 1 per cent to 13. 3 per cent, 
furthermore, aggregate credit union assets have maintained 
substantial growth rates even during recent periods of credit 
stringency. 
Assuming that the new authority is confined to assistance of credit 
J^ions with temporary liquidity problems and other special situations, 
w°uld be preferable, on administrative grounds, to give such 
Authority to the National Credit Union Administration, the present 
°uPervisory and insurance agency, rather than to create a partially-
° V etapping, new agency in the credit union field. 
With the lending 
° r i t y clearly limited in this fashion, and with the economies of 
v- 
lustration that can be derived from use of the existing super-
fv*1^ machinery, there would be no need for public borrowing 
ority a.s large as that provided in the bill (which we estimate 
Uglily at $3 to $4 billion). 
This may also preclude the need for 
a^ory stock subscriptions by credit unions. 
iTi 
Co. 
because H. R. 7 could have a significant impact on the 
* v e P o s^ion of credit unions relative to other depository 
°the 
° n S j ^ would seem best to consider the bill in the light of 
v, - 1 E)roposals designed to bring about a balanced and coherent 
orm r\f J 
°t the nation's financial structure. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

27-12 
Item No. 9 
7/19/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST FINANCE COMPANY and 
MID-CONTINENT BANCSHARES 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding 
Company and Acquisition of Hugh E. Smith, Inc. 
First Finance Company ("First Finance") and its wholly-owned 
Subsidiary, Mid-Continent Bancshares ("Bancshares"), both of Nevada, 
k°uri, have applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the 
Holding Copmany Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank 
holdinn A ng company through the indirect acquisition of 97 per cent of the 
V° t i ng shares of Commercial Bank of Leadville, Leadville, Colorado ("Bank"), 
th 
tou8h the 
acquisition of 98 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
""v-inent Corporation, Leadville, Colorado, a bank holding company 
a 
^hich 
Presently owns 97 per cent of the voting shares of Bank. 
At the same time Applicants have applied for the Board's 
a P p r° V a l under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
N a t i o n Y to engage in certain permissible insurance agency activities 
thr 
° U g h 
indirect acquisition of the shares of Hugh E. Smith, Inc., 
a d v U l e , Colorado ("Smith"), through the acquisition of Mid-Continent 
P° r a t i°n, a bank holding company which presently owns Smith. 
Notice of receipt of these applications, affording opportunity 
for ^ 
terested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
c°rdance with sections 3 and 4 of the Act. The time for filing comments 
e ws has. -expired, and the Board has considered the applications and 
c°mments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 

-2 
2743 
t h e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)). 
First Finance is presently a bank holding company by virtue of 
l t S 0vmership of The First National Bank of Golden City, Golden City, 
First Finance is also engaged directly, and through 16 sub-
3idiarv 
y companies, in the consumer finance business and the credit 
itl8m.a n ce business. 
Bancshares, a wholly-owned subsidiary of First 
finance » was formed for the purpose of acquiring Mid-Continent Corpora-
tlon whinh 
m c h presently owns Bank and Smith. 
3/ 
Bank ($8.2 million in deposits) 
is the only bank in Leadville, 
m^unity of approximately 4,300 people. The nearest competing bank is 
Seated approximately 30 miles from Bank. Since the proposed transactions 
ll*VolVe 
corporate reorganization by the principal shareholders of First 
natice Bn 
» °ancshares and Mid-Continent Corporation, consummation of the 
P*0PoSax 
W i-H have no adverse effect on existing or potential competition, 
^he financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Slicant » First Finance's existing nonbanking subsidiaries, Bank, and 
insistent with approval of these applications. Although Banc-
S h a r e s Will « 
incur significant debt in relation to its net worth, several 
if . i c a t 
. 
^ 
it- ^ ^ n a n c e would, upon approval of the instant applications, divest 
pirst 
.qut8itionS ® h a r e s 
The First National Bank of Golden City prior to its ac-
Ut»d 
^on of n i 
lft 
secfci 
a n k« 
By separate Order of this date, the Board has determined, 
h l (8)(3U° n 2 ^ ) ( 3 ) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 
Fl Pirst pi 
t h a t t h e divestiture of The First National Bank of Golden City 
P i t pina 
n C G w o u l d b e a valid divestiture of that bank, and therefore, 
h 
Natl ° e W O u*d cease to be a bank holding company with respect to The 
o ^ i n 
l 0 n a * Bank of Golden City prior to consummation of the proposal 
a 
By*Se 
4 ( c W t e 0 r d G r o f t h i s date, the Board has approved First Finance's 
3/t<5ugh sub j 
aPPlications to continue to engage directly, and indirectly 
** ^a^Uinp , o r i e s , in consumer finance and credit insurance activities. 
8 d a t a are as of June 30, 1972. 

27M 
-3-
c°nsiderations diminish the importance of this factor. It appears that 
^ricshares should be able to service its debt, independent of First Finance, 
£ tom 
m income derived from jjank and from Smith's insurance business. It also 
P P e a r s t h a t Bancshares should be able to retire such acquisition debt 
wituj 
n 10 years without significant danger to the condition of Bank. Con-
c a t i o n s relating to the convenience and needs of the community to be 
served » 
are consistent with approval of the acquisition of Bank. It is the 
Board's 4 a 
judgment that consummation of the transaction would be in the public 
e r e s t a n d that applications to acquire Bank should be approved. 
Smith is a general insurance agency located on the premises of 
Bank. 
T h 
n e operation by a bank holding company of a general insurance agency 
in a 
community of less than 5,000 people is an activity that the Board has 
Ptevi0u , 
•Ly determined by regulation to be closely related to banking (12 
C P R 225-4(a)(9)(iii)(a)). 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation 
° f ^ e p oposal would result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair 
C 0 mPeti t i o n 
11 > conflicts of interests, unsound banking practices, or other 
* d V e r se effer, 
e c c s upon the public interest. Based upon the foregoing and 
°their C Q n 
siderations reflected in the record, the Board has determined that 
M l e balan 
.... ~ 
__ 
n c c of the public interest factors that the Board is"required to 
regarding the acquisition of Smith under § 4(c)(8) is favorable 
^ that tho 
applications should be approved. 
0 n the basis of the record, the applications to acquire Bank 
" s»ith a r p approved for the reasons summarized above. The acquisition 

-4- 
- ^ S 
Bank shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day 
f o l W L n g the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
a f t e r ^ e effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
800(1 cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
a n t to delegated authority. The acquisition of Smith shall not be 
COriavimmated later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order 
r> unless such period is extended by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority granted here-
a* The determination as to Smith's activities is subject to the Board's 
author 
r i ty to require reports by, and make examinations of, holding com-
a and their subsidiaries and to require such modification or termina-
rv-C 
°t the activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as 
e B°ard finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and 
PUrPQses of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued there-
uftder 
» 
to prevent evasion thereof. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective July 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
f o r this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST FINANCE COMPANY 
2716 
Item No. 10 
7/19/73 
Order Approving Continuation of Consumer Finance and 
Credit Insurance Activities and Retention of Subsidiaries 
First Finance Company, Nevada, Missouri, a bank holding company 
withJ 
i / 
l n the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act,— has applied for the 
B° a r d' s approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of 
the 
e Board's Regulation Y, to retain all of the voting shares of the follow-
U g companies: First Finance Company of Houston, Inc., Houston, Missouri; 
i r s t Finance Company of Salem, Inc., Salem, Missouri; First Finance Company 
°f ElrW j 
u°rado Springs, Inc., Eldorado Springs, Missouri; First Finance Company 
Denver, Inc., Denver, Colorado; First Finance Company of Mt. Vernon, Inc., 
n o n> Missouri; First Finance Company of Springfield, Inc., Springfield, 
'ssouri; First Finance Company of Osceola, Inc., Osceola, Missouri; First 
ce Company of Vinita, Inc., Vinita, Oklahoma; First Finance Company of 
> J-nc., Monett, Missouri; First Finance Company of Joplin, Inc., 
n> Missouri; First Finance Company of Bolivar, Inc., Bolivar, Missouri; 
Fi*St Xfi 
Nuance Company of Lamar, Inc., Lamar, Missouri; First Finance Dis-
c o ^ Co 
of Joplin, Inc., Joplin, Missouri; First Finance Discount Co., 
Vest( 
» Missouri; First Finance Company, Inc., Fort Scott, Kansas; and South-
"ern insurance Agency, Inc., Nevada, Missouri. 
Southwestern Insurance 
Age*Ujy 
T 
» lnc., engages in the activity of acting as agent or broker with 
t 0 the sale of automobile physical damage insurance and personal 
^Pplic ° r d e r of this date, the Board has approved First Finance Company's 
the^3"011 t o become a bank holding company, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
c°mmet ^ 
k Holding Company Act, through the indirect acquisition of 
cial Bank of Leadville, Leadville, Colorado. 

•TV" 
(O I 
- 2 -
pr°Perty insurance which protects the security interest of loans made by 
i r S t Fi-nance and its consumer finance subsidiaries located in Missouri. 
other abovementioned subsidiary companies and Applicant engage in the 
ies of making and acquiring consumer finance loans and acting as 
6etlt ° r broker in the sale of credit life, credit accident and health 
^suranr and credit fire insurance which protects the security interest 
of 
atls m a d e by such companies. Such activities have been specified by 
Board ^ 
a r a in § 225.4(a)(1) and (9) of Regulation Y as permissible for 
b a n k H o l d W 
U i aing companies. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to 
u 
submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
k^n d i 
u y Published (38 Federal Register 3220). The time for filing corn-
e a 
a n d views has expired, and the Board has considered all comments 
^ i v e d l n light of the public interest factors set forth in section 
(C)<8> Of H 
* 
the Act (12 U.S.C, 1843(c)). 
Applicant will control one bank with deposits of $8.2 million, 
^Present! 
n 8 .2 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
P U c a n t h» 
n as also received approval to indirectly acquire a general insur-
flt> 
2/ 
Subsidi 
Except for First Finance Company of Houston, Inc. ("Houston") and 
n c e Company of Salem, Inc. ("Salem"), all of the abovementioned 
t y COmPanies were acquired by Applicant between 1954 
Hu&h r? this date, the Board approved Applicant's indirect acquisi-
E. Smith, Inc., Leadville, Colorado, a general insurance agency, 

, 2748 
-3-
and i 9 7 0 
Applicant acquired both Houston and Salem by acquiring assets 
fr°m Superior Loan Company, Poplar Bluff, Missouri, without Board approval 
i n February of 1972. Applicant apparently was unaware that the acquisition 
o f Houston and Salem required Board approval, and on the basis of the record 
ttle B°ard concludes that Applicant's acquisition of Houston and Salem were 
n o t willful or knowing violations of the Act. 
It does not appear that the continuation of Applicant's direct 
°nsumer finance and credit insurance activities nor Applicant's retention 
of l t 
consumer finance subsidiaries and its credit insurance subsidiary 
would 
bn V e an adverse effect on either existing or potential competition 
e applicant's c i o s e s t subsidiary consumer finance office is located . 
over 1 nrv 
1 0 0 miles from Applicant's subsidiary bank and Applicant's existing 
d l t insurance subsidiary is located about 700 miles from Applicant's 
Several i 
insurance agency subsidiary. 
There is no evidence in the record that the continuation of Ap-
8 direct consumer finance and credit insurance activities or the pro-
v e d ret 
entions would lead to an undue concentration of resources, conflicts 
of i n t 
erests, or unsound banking practices, 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
the recov/i 
v u r a> the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
factors H 
Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) is favor-
able. 
A 
ceordingly^ the applications are hereby approved. This determina-
tion i s 
subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of 
8ulation v 
11 * and to the Board's authority to require such modification or 

2749 
-4-
termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its sub-
sidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
issued thereunder. or to prevent evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective July 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
She 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
e h an, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

, 
. 
• 
2750 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 11 
7/19/73 
FIRST FINANCE COMPANY 
Order Graining Determination Under Bank Holding Company Act 
In the matter of the request by First Finance Company, Nevada, 
sourl ("First Finance"), for a determination pursuant to § 2(g)(3) of 
0 Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. 
First Finance, a bank holding company within the meaning of the 
* * H ° H i n g Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)), on the basis of its 
Of 57.1 per cent of the voting shares of The First National Bank 
Gold e n City, Golden City, Missouri ("Golden Bank"), seeks to terminate 
8aid 
1/ 
"i-us a3 a banlc holding company with respect to Golden Bank 
by 
nsforririg all of its shares of Golden Bank to Messrs. H. L. Fowler, 
c , and K. V. Edmistcn (officers and directors of First Finance) 
Nevada, Missouri. 
Under the provisions of § 2(g)(3) cf the Act (12 U.S.C. 
shares transferred after January 1, 1966, by any bank holding 
t o 
a transferee that has one or more officers, directors, trustees. 
oficiaries in ccrmon with or subject to control by the transferor 
Co; 
b e owned or controlled by the transferor unless the Board of 
^tricrg of i 
tne Federal Reserve System, after opportunity fcr hearing. 
- 
nat tho transferor if. not in fact capable of controlling the 
by 
° r d ? r — p — -
sUoi 
St: Finn 
t h l s d a t e » t h o B o a r d h a s approved the indirect acquisition 
Co* °c<lutslt?CG ° f C c o : ,- c r c l a l 
o f Lcadville, Leadville, Colorado. Uhcn 
n y vi»-h
 
n t 3 
cd, First Finance will beccse a bank holding 
respect to Commercial Bank of Leadville. 

-2- 
2751 
On the basis of this sectioti, the Board advised First Finance 
In the opinion of the Board, consummation of the proposed transfer 
v°uld not terminate First Finance's ownership and control of its 57.1 per 
C e U t l n tcrest In Golden Eank or First Finance's status as a bank holding 
y vrith respect to such Bank, unless the Board after opportunity for 
at*ng m d G 
a determination of the kind described in § 2(g)(3). 
First 
^ c e has requested such a determination, and it has submitted to the 
Board d 
documentary evidence to support its contention that Messrs. Fowler, 
Gtlbcrt 
a _ 
and Edmiston cannot in fact be controlled by First Finance. 
Notice of an opportunity for hearing with respect to First 
bailee * 
5 request for a determination under § 2(g)(3) was published in 
the P^j 
* 
E££lstfvr on Friday, February 2, 1973 (38 F.R. 3220). The 
provided for requesting a hearing expired on February 12, 1973. No 
Such 
*-quest has been received by the Board, nor has any evidence been 
**Ceived 
u 
to chow that First Finance is in fact capable of controlling 
• Fowler, Gilbert, or Edmiston. 
It: is hereby determined that First Finance is not in fact 
^Pabie 
t
 
c c°ntrolling Messrs. Fowler, Gilbert, or Edmiston. This de-
^ 
is based upon the evidence of record in this matter, includ-
5 
fach that Messrs. Fowler, Gilbert, and Edmiston and their iraediate 
m 
aPpro>:inately 92 per cent of the voting shares of First Finance 
Either M 
j, 
Messrs, Fowler, Gilbert, nor Edmiston will be indebted to First 
as a result of the transfer of shares of Golden Bank to them. 

2752 
Accordingly, it Is ordered. That First Finance's request for a 
^termination pursuant to 5 2(g)(3) be and hereby is granted. 
2/ 
y ^ t o c 
t h e Bo*~d of Governors, affective July 20, 1973. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Chester B peidberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
r — - — -
Sheeh°t:Ln8 
f ° r 
t h l S 
a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, 
Bucher and Holland. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Mitchell. 

2753 
B O A R D D F D O V E R N • R S 
Item No. 12 
n r T H E 
7 / 1 9 / 7 3 * 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
n r r i C l A U 
C O R H E 3 P U N O E I J C C 
T C 
T H E 
B O A K D 
July 19, 1973 
Board of Directors 
1 irst Empire State Corporation 
One M fx T Plaza 
Buffaloj Mew York 
14240 
Gentlemen: 
By letter dated June 15, 1973, Vice President Dennis C. 
onaifch requested an extension of time until March 31, 1975, in which 
Hrst Empire State Corporation could raise at least $10 million by 
sale of common stock. The commitment to sell the common stock was 
Siven at the time First Empire acquired Hambro American Bank &. 
•'rusi: Company, the proceeds of which were to be used to reduce the 
•^"Uanco of a term loan. The term loan was used to acquire Hambro. 
The Board hereby grants the requested extension of time 
t o *&rch 31, 197b, In granting this extension the Board requests 
'Irst Kmpire state Corporation Lo watch the markets carefully and 
l o 
advantage of any favorable opportunity to sell stock at the 
earliest reasonable date. 
Yours sincerely, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
C h e s t e r B . F e 1 db e rg 
Secretary 

, 2754 
BOARD 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
Item No. 13 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
7/19/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
• i S & ' i - ' i ^ -
Milfm; 
V^i ' 1 i ! 
• 
: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S f ' D N O E N C E 
" 
~ D 
T H E 
B O A h D 
July 19, 1973 
Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company 
One M & T Plaza 
Buffalo, New York 
14240 
Gentlemen *. 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated May 7, 1973, of 
lrst~ Empire Overseas Corporation, Buffalo, New York, and there is 
enclosed a preliminary pera.it authorizing that Corporation to exerc.i: 
such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
' • as arc incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Cor 
So 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, tb< 
potation may not exercise any of. the other powers conferred by 
eL1.on 2.3(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
1 ^-horizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
lt:s final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
^ s®c-*el:ary. together with at least three of the directors, must 
(on 
y 
that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
by 
a maJorir.y of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
int
l"Ik":L2CTls 
the United States, by corporations the controlling 
u
 
G-est m which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
or f 1 
l a w s of the United States or of a State of the United States 
jVy ^ f f•1-J.*:ns or companies the controlling interest in which is owned 
tal°c^ Z c n s 
t'-e United States; ard (3) that of: the authorized capi-
llar st-0c1* specified in t he Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
Pa-'rl "ei1 
' 3'11 1'n 
and that each shareholder has individually 
The- 111 111 east* at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
0 £ ^ t e r , the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment 
a-. " l'erriainlng instalments a3 and when each is paid, in, in accord-
t0
 
1 Law. The reqresc for a final permit should be forwarded 
11 e Board via. the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
£mpirG 
accordanc1 with the request made on behalf of First 
fina",e 
Q r s o a s Corporation, the Board will, when the Corporation's 
r m^ t 
issued, be disposed to grant consent for it to acquire, 
ir 
J 
indirectly, 100 per cent of the stock of two new companies 

; 
£ 7 5 5 
Manufacturers and Traders 
Trust Company 
-2-
Your attention is directed to the fact that First Empire 
Overseas Corporation will have no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans and investments 
will need to be made under the ceiling of Manufacturers and Traders 
Trust Company. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given on the 
condition that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation 
will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they 
apply to Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Q F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, O.C. 50551 
July 19, 1973 
Preliminary Permit 
XT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
ec-tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated May 7, 1973, of FIRST EMPIRE OVERSEAS CORPORATION duly filed 
V l t h said Board of Governors, and that FIRST EMPIRE OVERSEAS 
ORATION is authorized to exercise such of the. powers conferred 
it by said Section. 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary 
organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors 
t o its 
Of Ml 
i t 
I 
110 federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to 
01 n^ence business in accordance with the provisions of said 
* 
1 0 n 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board of 
0%°inors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto, 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B• Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
