MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 10, 1973 

2 1 5 7 1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 10, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Metzger of the Office of the Executive Director 
Mrs. Semia and Miss Brown, Technical Assistants, 
Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. Today's agenda called for consideration of 
the application of First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, 
Texas, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to Northline State 
Bank, also of Houston. However, action was deferred pending development 
of additional information requested by Governor Bucher. 

o r n o 
AJtJ / A*' 
7/10/73 
-2-
In a memorandum of June 25, 1973, the staff recommended approv-
al of the application of Mercantile Bancorporation Inc., St. Louis, 
Missouri, to acquire shares of Mercantile National Bank of St. Louis 
County, St. Louis County, Missouri, a proposed new bank. The Board 
unanimously approved the application and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision in a form to include an additional 
paragraph suggested by Governor Mitchell regarding the nature of the 
business of the applicant's subsidiaries. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 1. The Board also approved the sending of a 
letter to counsel for a protesting bank denying the bank's request that 
action on the Mercantile Bancorporation application be deferred pending 
disposition of the bank's request for reconsideration by the Comptroller 
of the Currency of his approval of a charter for the proposed subsidiary 
bank. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
During consideration of the foregoing item, comments were made 
on the relative meanings and use by the Department of Justice and the 
courts of the terms "potential competition" and "probable future 
competition." 
Some sentiment was expressed that the latter term was 
more appropriate for the Board's purposes. 
It was understood that the 
Legal Division and the Division of Research and Statistics would prepare 
memoranda with respect to this matter and that such memoranda would be 
docketed for consideration at a subsequent meeting. 

2573 
7/10/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
for permission (1) to establish a finance company, El Chaco S.A. 
Financiera, in Asuncion, Paraguay, and (2) for that company to issue 
debt obligations with maturities in excess of one year. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3 . It was 
understood that the staff would prepare an analysis of the debt struc-
ture of First National City Bank, with particular attention to be paid 
to the accounting practices used for the subsidiaries of First National 
City institutions. 
In a memorandum of July 6, 1973, Mr. Kakalec, Controller, 
recommended that an assessment of .01456 of the total paid-in capital 
and surplus of the Federal Reserve Banks as of June 30, 1973, be levied 
upon the Banks to meet the estimated expenses of the Board for the 
second half of 1973. Such an assessment would produce $23,496,600. 
The Board unanimously approved the levying of the recommended assessment. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
First National City Corporation. In a memorandum of June 1, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of First National City Corporation, New York, New 
York, to establish an Edge corporation, Citicorp Overseas Investment 

f 
* 
m 
7/10/73 
-4-
Corporation, also to be located in New York City. The Division had 
given special attention to the fact that the Edge corporation would 
be a subsidiary of the holding company rather than of its lead bank, 
First National City Bank. Under section 23A of the Federal Reserve 
Act, transactions between member banks and their Edge corporation affil-
iates are explicitly exempted from the restrictions of that section on 
loans to affiliates. Thus, the Division noted that approval of the 
application would make it possible for bank funds to be diverted in a 
manner that would primarily augment earnings of the holding company 
directly, rather than through the bank. The Division recommended, 
however, that the application be approved since both the Edge corpora-
tion and the member bank were closely supervised by the Board. 
In a memorandum of June 27, 1973, the Legal Division recommended 
imposition of an interim condition requiring First National City Bank 
to observe the restrictions of section 23A on cross-stream lending to 
the new Edge corporation affiliate. An interim condition was proposed 
in view of the fact that the System Steering Committee on International 
Banking Regulation was expected to deal with the question of cross-stream 
lending by member banks to foreign banking subsidiaries of their parent 
bank holding companies. 
Discussion turned principally on the question whether the 
proposed restriction on cross-stream lending should be made temporary 

> ( o 
7/10/73 
-5-
or permanent. A consensus developed in favor of imposing a permanent 
condition. 
Subject to such a condition, the Board unanimously approved 
the application to establish the Edge corporation. Attached as Item No. 4 
is a copy of the letter sent to First National City Corporation, with 
which was transmitted a preliminary permit. 
First Commerce Corporation. 
In a memorandum of June 29, 1973, 
the staff recommended approval of the application of First Commerce 
Corporation, New Orleans, Louisiana, to acquire shares of (1) Money, Inc., 
also of New Orleans; (2) E-Z Finance Plan of Gulfport, Inc., Gulfport, 
Mississippi; and (3) E-Z Finance Plan of Biloxi, Inc., Biloxi, Mississippi. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Director appointments. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco whether Mr. Joseph 
R. Vaughan, President, Knudsen Corporation, Los Angeles, California, would 
accept appointment if tendered as a director of the Los Angeles Branch 
for the unexpired portion of the term ending December 31, 1974, with 
the understanding that if it was found that he would accept, the appoint-
ment would be made. 
(It having been ascertained that he would accept, 
an appointment telegram was subsequently sent to Mr. Vaughan.) 

f 
i 
• 
r o 
7/10/73 
- 6 -
It was agreed to ascertain through the Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas whether Mr. Gerald D. Hines, President, Gerald 
D. Hines & Associates, Houston, Texas, would accept appointment if 
tendered as a director of the Houston Branch for the unexpired portion 
of the term ending December 31, 1974, with the understanding that if 
it was found that he would accept, the appointment would be made. 
In 
the event that Mr. Hines should be unavailable, the Board agreed that 
a similar inquiry would be made with respect to Mr. Carl B. Sherman, 
President, Houston Lighting and Power Company. 
(It having developed 
that Mr. Hines was unavailable, it was ascertained that Mr. Sherman 
would accept. An appointment telegram was subsequently sent to 
Mr. Sherman.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2577 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
7/10/73 
MERCANTILE BANC0RP0RATION INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mercantile Bancorporation Inc., St, Louis, Missouri, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
u
*S.c. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of Mercantile National Bank of St. Louis County, St. 
Louis County, Missouri ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Noltice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls the largest bank in the State of Missouri 
a
nd seven other Missouri banking subsidiaries and is the largest banking 
organization in the State, controlling $1.2 billion of deposits which 
r e
Present 9.6 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972.) 
Several competitors of Applicant and future competitors of Bank 
have expressed their views opposing the proposed transaction. Briefly 
s t
ated, their objections are grounded on their views that Applicant 
1 
Presently is dominant in the St. Louis banking market"" in which Bank 
A/ The St. Louis banking market is the relevant geographic market in this 
^
s
e and is approximated by the City of St. Louis, St. Louis County, St. 
Charles County, and portions of Jefferson County in Missouri, and portions 
o f
 Madison and St. Clair Counties in Illinois. 

. 2578 
-2-
would operate and that, therefore, rather than permit Applicant to fore-
close the banking opportunity represented by Bank, the Board should 
deny the instant application and, thereby, preserve that opportunity for 
a smaller banking organization, thus increasing the likelihood of 
^concentration of the market and erosion of Applicant's "dominant" 
Position in that market. 
Applicant controls three banks in the St. Louis banking market 
with aggregate deposits of $1.0 billion, representing 17 per cent of the 
total commercial bank deposits in that market area. Since 1966, the 
share of total deposits held by its subsidiaries in the area 
approximated by the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County has declined 
from 25.2 per cent to 19.9 per cent. 
In the St. Louis Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area 
("SMSA") which is approximated by the City of St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Franklin, Jefferson, and St. Charles Counties in Missouri and Madison 
and St. Clair Counties in Illinois, the share of total deposits 
held by Applicant's predecessors (Mercantile Trust Company, N.A. and 
Mercantile Commerce Trust Company) has decreased from 20.6 per cent 
in 1966 to 16.1 per cent at year-end 1972, despite its acquisition 
of two banks in the SMSA during that period. The average mean 
Percentage of total deposits held by the largest banking organizations 
in SMSAs with populations of one million and over in unit banking 
S
tates was 21.5 per cent as of June, 1970, at which time Applicant's 

2579 
-3-
predecessors held 17.6 per cent of total deposits in the St. Louis 
SMSA. jn fact, Applicant's share of the relevant market, of the 
&
t . Louis SMS^flhd of St. Louis City and County is overstated when 
calculated on the basis of total deposits. Applicant's lead bank 
is a correspondent bank with over 18 per cent of its total deposits 
owing to other banks. 
It competes for correspondent balances 
with one other St. Louis bank and several banks in Kansas City, 
Chicago, Memphis, and other money centers. As a result of its 
correspondent business, Bank has a large volume of deposits in the 
Process of collection5 whereas its total deposits, as of December 31, 
1972, amounted to $1.0 billion, its net demand deposits are less 
than $500 million, and its gross demand deposits approximate $682 million. 
Its share of the St. Louis market is more meaningfully measured by 
its deposits received from individuals, partnerships, and corporations, 
("IPC deposits") particularly such deposits under $100,000 in amount. 
Applicant's lead bank, as of June, 1972, held total IPC deposits 
under $100,000 amounting to $396.6 million, representing 9.6 per cent 
such deposits held by banks in the St. Louis SMSA. Based on these 
f a
c t s , the Board does not consider Applicant "dominant" in any area. 
Further, the St. Louis banking market is not considered highly 
concentrated. As of June 30, 1972, the fifteen largest banking 
organizations in that market held 67.3 per cent of total deposits 
i n
 that market, and the five largest banking organizations held 

2560 
-4-
45.4 per cent of total deposits in that market. This compares to an 
average market share, as of June, 1970, of 55.7 per cent by the 
f
ive largest banking organizations in SMSAs with population of one 
Million and over in unit banking States, and is less than the average 
market share of the three largest banking organizations in such SMSAs. 
Of the 110 banks in the market, six are located on the 
Periphery of Bank's primary service area in central St. Louis County. 
None of Applicant's banking subsidiaries derives more than 0.8 
P
G
r cent of its deposit accounts from Bank's service area. The six 
ba
nl<3 presently located on the edge of that service area have 
t o
8ether experienced an annual rate of deposit growth in the last 
f J 
v
e years triple the Statewide deposit growth rate. Three of 
t h
°
s e s i x
 banks are either present or planned subsidiaries of other 
b a r
*k holding companies. 
Since Bank is a proposed bank and the other service area banks 
a r e
 relatively well-established, consummation of the proposal would not 
eliminate existing competition; nor does there appear to be a likelihood 
that establishment of a new bank would have an undue adverse effect 
0 n
 the other banks in the market. Furthermore, it appears unlikely 
t h
at Applicant's acquisition of Bank would preclude other banking 
°
r
Sanizations from entering the market. On the basis of population 
f i
8ures for the period 1960-70, Bank's primary service area has been 

I 
• • • 
.. • •• 
• 
... 
' . 
-5-
growing at a rate approximately four times faster than that of 
St. Louis County and 16 times faster than that of the State as a whole. 
That two banks have been chartered in the area since 1970 and 
applications for four more bank charters for banks to be located in 
the area are pending reflects this growth. Any increase in the 
share of market deposits held by Applicant that might result in 
the short run following consummation of this proposal may be 
h 
• v. 
dissipated with the arrival of new entrants to serve the expanding 
area. In the Board's view, the competitive factors in this case are 
( 
distinguishable from those in a recent case involving a proposal to 
f 
acquire a proposed new bank where the Board found that the Applicant 
2/ 
was dominant;— in that case, at least one other bank in the area 
had not yet had sufficient time to establish itself as a viable 
competitor, and the population of the relevant area had remained 
somewhat stable. In brief, the Board believes that consummation of 
the proposal under consideration will not have such a significant 
adverse effect on potential competition in the St. Louis market as 
to warrant denial. 
2/First at Orlando Corporation, 1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
302. 
I 

_ 2 5 8 2 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
Present subsidiary banks are generally satisfactory; prospects of Bank 
under Applicant's control appear favorable. The establishment of Bank 
W
H 1 provide, through affiliation with Applicant, a convenient source 
o f
 a full range of banking services to the residents and businesses of 
Bank's primary service area. Thus, banking factors, as well as consid-
e r
ations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served, are consistent with approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would 
b e
 in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
t h
e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
fc
his Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) 
W G
rcantile National Bank of St. Louis County, shall be opened for busi-
ness not later than six months after the effective date of this Order. 
E a c
h of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good 
c
ause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant 
t o
 delegated authority. 
3/ 
\ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 12,
N
1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
^ 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
grimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
C h a
irman Burns. 

2583 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
7/10/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
R O A K ' D 
July 12, 1.973 
William C. Cramer, Esq. 
Cramer and Haber 
485 L
r
Enfant Plaza, Suite 4100 
Washington, D.C. 20024 
Dear Mr. Cramer: 
Enclosed please find the Board's Order approving the 
application of Mercantile Bancorporation Inc., St. Louis, Missouri 
to acquire Mercantile National Bank of St. Louis County, Missouri, 
a proposed new bank. As is evident from the enclosed Order, the 
Board considered the views'of your client, Parkway Bank and Trust 
Company in acting upon the application. 
The Board has also considered your request that the 
Board defer consideration of the application pending final 
disposition of your client's request that the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency reconsider its approval of the 
application to-organize Mercantile National Bank of St. Louis 
County and judicial review of that matter. The Board has denied 
that request in view of the absence of supporting facts or argu-
ment in the record. 
The Board is grateful for the expression of your 
client's views on this application. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

•VofGow 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2584 
Item No. 3 
7/10/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 10, 1973 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 5, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to 
purchase and hold all the shares of El Chaco S.A., Financiera ("Chaco"), 
Asuncion, Paraguay, at a cost of approximately G.1,200,000 (about 
$10 ,800), provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Chaco by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in Chaco if Chaco at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a cor-
poration in which a corporation organized under Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the 
consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 
stock, or if Chaco establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Paraguay or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Chaco as it may.require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Chaco 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Chaco were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

2585 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(4) That all assets and liabilities of Chaco shall be 
fully reflected in consolidated financial statements 
of their parent institutions filed with U.S. bank 
regulatory authorities or issued to the public. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Chaco in Paraguay 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of Chaco. 
The Board also grants consent for FNCOIC to continue to 
hold Chaco after Chaco issues and has outstanding borrowings with 
maturities in excess of one year in an amount not to exceed $5,000,000, 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
they apply to First National City Bank and ics affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E
 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
7/10/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 12, 1973 
First National City Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated December 4, 1972, 
of Citicorp Overseas Investment Corporation ("COIC"), New York, 
New York, and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that 
Corporation to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211,3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business c 
Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment 
of the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance 
with law. The request for a final permit should be forwarded to the 
Board vie the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
In reference to the implication in your letter of application 
that, under Section 225.4(f)(2) of Regulation Y, shares held by 

2 5 8 7 
First National City Corporation 
-2-
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation may be transferred 
to COIC without prior Board consent, it should be noted that, as a 
Corporation chartered under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, 
COIC may acquire shares only in the manner permitted by the provisions 
of Section 211.8 of Regulation K. 
In acting on this application, the Board has given special 
consideration to the relationship between First National City Corpora-
tion's subsidiary banks and the proposed Edge Corporation. 
Subsec-
tion (4) of the third paragraph of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve 
Act provides that the provisions of Section 23A shall not apply to any 
affiliate that is organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, or a wholly-owned subsidiary of such affiliate. This exception 
was added by Congress in the 1930's, with the intent of removing the 
impediments of Section 23A to the financing by member banks of their 
corporate instrumentalities for international banking. 
The proposed Edge corporation would be a corporate instru-
mentality of the parent bank holding company rather than the bank. The 
Board believes that it would not be in the public interest to permit 
use of the Edge Corporation charter to achieve the elimination of Sec-
tion 23A protection with respect to a bank's loans or extensions of 
credit in support c£ the foreign operations of its parent holding com-
pany. The Board therefore grants the foregoing approval only upon the 
condition that First National City Corporation shall cause its subsidiary 
banks to observe the limitations and conditions set forth in the first 
and second paragraphs of Section 23A with respect to any loan or ex-
tension of credit: by any such bank to COIC or any of its subsidiaries. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that COIC will have 
no separate base under the foreign credit restraint effort and that any 
foreign loans and investments will need to be made under the ceiling of 
First National City Bank. Accordingly, uhe foregoing approval is given 
°n the condition that any foreign loans and investments of the Corpora-
tion will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraing Guidelines as they 
apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

2588 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 2DB5I 
July 12, 1973 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated December 4, 1972, of CITICORP OVERSEAS INVESTMENT CORPORATION 
duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that CITICORP OVERSEAS 
INVESTMENT CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the powers 
conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
Preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions of 
said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By (Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

2589 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
7/10/73 
FIRST COMMERCE CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Money, Inc.; E-Z Finance Plan 
of Biloxi, Inc., and E-Z Finance Plan of Gulfport, Inc. 
First Commerce Corporation, New Orleans, Louisiana, a bank holding 
c
°topany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
t h
e Board
7
s approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of 
e
 Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of Money, Inc., 
N e v 7
 Orleans, Louisiana; E-Z Finance Plan of Biloxi, Inc., Biloxi, Mississippi; 
a n d E
~
z
 Finance Plan of Gulfport, Inc., Gulfport, Mississippi ("Companies"). 
of the companies engage in the activity of making or acquiring consumer 
l o
ans or other extensions of credit. In addition, the Louisiana companies 
n
&
a
ge in the activity of acting as insurance agent or broker in the sale of 
a i t
 life, 
accident and health insurance incident to extensions of consumer 
r e d
i t . Such activities have been determined by the Board to be closely re-
I a t e
<l to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a) (1), (9)). The Louisiana 
°
m
Panies have not applied for permission to engage in the sale of property 
F r a n c e ; and the Mississippi companies are not presently engaged in any 
in 
F r a n c e activities. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
r s
°
n s
 to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has been 
tl^lv 
y
 Published (38 Federal Register 14203). The time for filing comments and 
^i&Ws H 
uas expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls one banking subsidiary, First National Bank of 
Knerce, 
in 
^ e r c e , New Orleans, Louisiana ("Bank"), which is the second largest bank 
t h e
 New Orleans SMSA. Bank's deposits of $573 million, represent approxi-

-2-
2590 
^tely 20 per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in this area. 
<
A
U banking data are as of June 30, 1972.) 
Money, Inc. is based and operates entirely in Louisiana, while the 
o t
her two companies are based and operate entirely in Mississippi. The Missis-
s
lppi companies have a total of six offices, while the Louisiana company has 
1 1
 offices, five of which are located in the banking market in which Bank is 
l o
cated. These five offices had $1.3 million in consumer loans outstanding in 
Bank had $8 million in consumer loans outstanding, representing approxi-
*
a t e X
y 12 per cent of the total bank-originated consumer loans in the SMSA. 
Although Bank and Money, Inc. both compete for consumer loan business 
i n
 New Orleans, it appears that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
n o t
 have a significant effect on existing competition since Applicant's share 
of t h e
 consumer loan business in the market would be increased only slightly. 
°
r
eover, a substantial number of independent competitors would remain in the 
Market- rn 
There are approximately 100 consumer finance companies which compete 
New Orleans area, and many of these companies have national affiliation. 
°
Se
 offices of Money, Inc. located outside of the New Orleans SMSA do not 
P r e
sently compete with any of Applicant's subsidiaries. Furthermore, it does 
tiot 
appear likely that significant competition would develop in the future 
such offices and any of Applicant's subsidiaries. 
None of Applicant's subsidiaries presently competes in any market 
w
hich offices of the Mississippi companies are located; nor does it appear 
that any significant competition would develop In the future, due to 
distances involved. The Mississippi companies, combined, ranked seventeenth 

2591 
-3-
aniong the twenty largest consumer finance companies in Mississippi in 1971. 
Consummation of the transaction should increase the financial resources avail-
able to each of the companies. The introduction of management expertise and 
s
°phisticated operating systems by Applicant should enable the companies to 
better serve their respective markets. Accordingly, the Board concludes that 
c
°mpetitiva considerations ana public interest factors are consistent with 
a
Pproval of the application. 
The Louisiana companies also sell credit life insurance and acci-
dei
*t and health insurance in connection with loans it originates. Due to 
t l l e
 limited nature of its insurance activities it does not appear that Appli-
C a
»t's acquisition of such insurance activities would have any significant 
e
^ e c t on either existing or potential competition. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation of 
proposed acquisition would result in undue concentration of resources, 
Ul
tfair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, or other 
a d v
erse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the 
t e
cord, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest fac-
t o r
s the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
^
C c
ordingly, the application is hereby approved. This determination is subject 
t o
 the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the 
B
°
ar
d's authority to require such modification or termination of the activities 

25 92 
-4-
o f
 a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
t e
gulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"^ effective July 10, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
dimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman 
