MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 9, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 9, 1973. 
The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a . m . 
PRESENT: 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
M r . Mitchell 
M r . Brimmer 
M r . Sheehan 
M r . Bucher 
M r . Holland, Executive Director 
M r . Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
M r . Smith, Secretary 
M r . A l t m a n n , Assistant Secretary 
M r . Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Broida, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
M r . Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
M r . Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
M r . O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . O'Connell, General Counsel 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
M r . Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
M r . Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
M r s . Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The regular economic and financial review was presented. 
Cop 
o f
 the statistical materials prepared for the review have been placed 
I n
 the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

• _ 873 
3/9/73 
-2-
Mr. Rippey then reported on developments in Congress with respect to 
matters of interest to the Federal Reserve. 
Monetary policy alternatives. 
M r . Partee stated that staff 
contingency planning for monetary policy, which had been in progress 
for some time, sought to identify the best steps of strategy in an 
environment of tight money, which contemplated a considerable escala-
tion of interest rates and pressure on banks to make business loans. 
Such a situation now seemed to be close at hand. 
The basic assumption 
was that monetary policy would focus primarily on open market operations 
directed toward moderating growth in the monetary aggregates--not to a 
zero rate of growth but to a continuing moderate rise. 
Even with such 
a
 tempering accomplished, there could be a considerable rise in interest 
rates, especially if the economy was strong. 
Testing the probable condi-
tions on the quarterly model indicated some likelihood of approaching 
distortions of fund flows among financial institutions and major 
borrowing sectors. 
It was assumed that the System should devise ways 
t o
 even out those flows. 
The staff had concluded that reserve requirements would be the 
best instrument for actions to supplement open market operations, but 
use of reserve requirements was bound to lead to efforts by banks 
t o
 find loopholes. 
Some assistance to monetary policy might be found 
l r i
 supervisory measures and a tightened discipline of the discount 
w
t n d o w . 
M r . Partee called upon other staff members to discuss these 
a r
e a s of possible action. 

874 
3/9/73 
-3-
Commerits were made on several possible actions with respect 
to reserve requirements. 
The one the staff recommended was imposi-
tion of a marginal requirement on those types of deposit instruments 
that are not subject to the interest rate ceilings on consumer-type 
deposits; under current conditions the requirement would fall princi-
pally on certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more. 
The staff 
Proposed an initial reserve requirement of 10 per cent on the increase 
in such instruments. 
The probable incidence of such a requirement 
and its impact on reserve levels were described, as well as the possi-
bility of enlisting the voluntary participation of nonmember banks on 
the ground that the requirement constituted part of an over-all program 
containing monetary expansion. 
The staff suggested that action be taken to block several 
Possible loophole sources of funds. 
Possible specific actions included 
a
 reserve requirement on the increase in ineligible or working capital 
acceptances; withdrawal of the proposal now outstanding for comment 
u
n d e r which a 10 per cent reserve requirement would be imposed on all 
E
uro-dollar borrowings (the reserve-free bases being eliminated), and 
substitution for it of a reserve requirement of 5 per cent on the 
amount now outstanding and 10 per cent on increases; surveillance to 
c
lose off possible recourse to due bills; and imposition of reserve 
r e
q u i r e m e n t s on liabilities of nonbank subsidiaries of bank holding 

3/9/73 
-4-
companies, effected through requiring set-asides on commercial paper 
and bond issues (legislative authority would be sought for this 
Purpose). 
Possible supervisory actions mentioned to reinforce restric-
tive monetary policy measures included instructions to examiners to 
be especially vigilant for tendencies of banks to stray from prudent 
management in their efforts to find substitute sources of funds. 
Consideration might be given also to the status of letters of 
credit to support commercial paper, also known as documented discount 
drafts. 
There was a legal question concerning the use of these instru-
ments; one view held that they were not true liabilities but only 
contingent liabilities, another that they were illegal because they 
constitute guarantees, which banks do not have authority to issue. 
Although a position that the instruments were illegal would be most 
helpful in discouraging their use as a substitute source of funds, 
x t
 was doubtful that agreement on that position could be reached with 
the other supervisory agencies. 
It was understood that the Comptroller 
o f
 the Currency was concerned about this use of letters of credit, but 
W a s
 inclined to take a middle position and treat them as loans and 
therefore subject to the statutory limitation on loans to one borrower. 
E v e
n this middle position should deter their use somewhat. 
The staff 
S u
g g e s t e d that efforts be made to reach agreement in the Interagency 
c
°ordinating Committee on Bank Regulation regarding the treatment of 

87H 
3/9/73 
-5-
Xetters of credit, including a requirement that they be shown on bank 
statements and the manner in which they must be shown. 
Agreement might be sought through the Coordinating Committee 
also looking toward restraint on bank loan commitments. 
One approach 
wight be to have examiners require each bank to demonstrate that it 
was sufficiently aware of the volume of its commitments and had given 
adequate consideration to the means by which they might be met if 
necessary. 
Another possibility was a requirement that commitments be 
shown on call reports, or that large banks make separate monthly reports 
°f their commitments. 
Comments on possible tightening of discount window discipline 
included the observation that the discount mechanism provided a fulcrum 
open market operations; the need was to assure that in times of 
c r
e d i t stringency it did not become an escape hatch rather than the 
safety valve that it provided up to the point of administrative pressure. 
T
h e staff had considered, with a negative conclusion, whether there 
should be any change in the generally uniform rules followed by discount 
o f
f i c e r s . 
The period of tolerance for being in the window was not so 
l o
n g nor was the discount officers' definition of appropriateness of 
a c
c o m m o d a t i o n so loose that much slippage was likely to occur. 
If 
x t
 was thought that a somewhat more restrictive rule should be followed 
f o r
 the period of tolerance, the Reserve Bank Presidents should be 
b o u g h t into the discussion. 
Except for that possibility, the present 
r u
l e s seemed adequate to bite hard enough to provide the necessary 

3/9/73 
-6-
ba se against which open market operations could work. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
the Board would consider the questions raised at an early date, and 
that in the meantime discussions might be begun with the Coordinating 
Committee regarding the questions that would involve the other bank 
supervisory authorities. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
