MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 5, 1973 

'388 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 5, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon reviewed matters of interest to the Board presently 
being considered by the Congress. 
Staff members who had been present specifically for the economic 
review then withdrew. 
NOW accounts. Governor Mitchell requested the guidance of the 
Board for a meeting he was to attend this afternoon with representatives 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

'389 
2/5/73 
-2" 
of other financial agencies on NOW accounts (which were interest bearing 
funds deposited in savings banks but (1) subject to a negotiable order 
of withdrawal that was similar to check, and (2) not subject to Federally 
imposed reserve requirements). The primary purpose of the meeting was 
to discuss the likelihood of achieving a solution through State legis-
lation. It was decided that Governor Mitchell should not commit the 
Board to any action but, should State action not appear imminent, that 
he should express the willingness of the Board to consider (1) raising 
the Regulation Q deposit interest rate ceiling in Massachusetts and 
(2) recommending that Congress enact appropriate legislation. 
Governor Mitchell was requested to report back to the Board 
on the matters discussed at the meeting of the Coordinating Committee. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
