MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 6, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Amendment to Regulation Y, 
Bank Holding Companies. 

4309 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, November 6, 19 73. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of Bank of Virginia Company, Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares of 
Bank of Virginia-Petersburg, Petersburg, Virginia, a proposed new bank 
that intends to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of the 
Petersburg office of Bank of Virginia-Central. The Board authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of which is attached 
as Item No. 1. 

4310 
11/6/73 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mercantile 
Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to acquire shares of The 
Commerce Bank and Trust Company of Maryland, Bethesda, Maryland, a 
proposed new bank, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this 
decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United First 
Florida Banks, Inc., Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of Boynton Beach 
First National Bank and Trust, Boynton Beach, Florida, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Amendment to Regulation Y. At its meeting on October 17, 1973, 
the Board held a preliminary discussion related to its November 1971 
proposal to amend Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, to include armored 
c^r and courier services as permissible activities for bank holding 
companies. On that date, the Board discussed various aspects of the 
proposal with the understanding that the staff would prepare documentation 
to reflect the general views expressed by members of the Board. With a 
memorandum dated October 30, 1973, the Legal Division submitted a draft 
amendment, with accompanying interpretation and statement, that would 
Permit bank holding companies to engage in the courier service business, 
with certain limitations and conditions, and that would defer a decision 
the permissibility of armored car services. 
With various changes in wording that were suggested in today's 
discussion, the Board unanimously approved the proposed amendment, with 

4311 
11/6/73 
-3-
accompanying interpretation and statement, to become effective on a 
date to be selected by the Chairman. Copies of these documents in the 
form published in the Federal Register are attached under Item No. 4, 
along with a copy of the pertinent press release. 
Limitations on activities of former members and employees of 
the Board. On September 18, 1973, the Board approved publication for 
comment of a proposed regulation that would limit the activities of 
former members and employees of the Board. With a memorandum of November 2, 
1^73, the Legal Division submitted a revision of the proposed regulation 
incorporating various comments received on the original proposal. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the regulation, 
effective November 6, 1973, with changes in wording, and authorized its 
Publication in the Federal Register. A copy of the Federal Register notice 
is attached as Item No. 5. 
duPont Trust. On October 15, 1973, the Board issued a determination 
and order for divestiture of control requiring submission by the Trustees 
°f the Estate of Alfred I. duPont, Jacksonville, Florida, within 60 days 
°f a plan of divestiture of its control of Florida National Banks of Florida, 
Inc., also of Jacksonville. In a memorandum of November 1, 1973, the 
Legal Division recommended approval of a draft letter denying a request by 
duPont Trust for an additional 60 days in which to submit the divestiture 
Plan. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously denied applicant's request 
for an extension of time in which to submit a divestiture plan. A copy of 

43.113 
11/6/73 
-4-
the letter sent to duPont Trust, incorporating changes in wording suggested 
in today's discussion, is attached as Item No. 6. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, 
Allison, Melnicoff, and Coyne and Miss Brown; and Mr. Metzger of the 
Office of the Executive Director joined the meeting. 
Director appointments. The following actions were taken with 
respect to the appointment of Deputy Chairmen and Class C directors at 
Federal Reserve Banks and the appointment of directors at Federal Reserve 
Sank branches, with the understanding that advice of the appointments 
would be sent to the respective appointees at an appropriate time. 
The following were reappointed as Class C directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks indicated, each for a three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1974: 
Name 
Bank 
Alan J. Pifer 
New York 
Harry M. Young, Jr. 
St. Louis 
The following were reappointed as directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank branches indicated, each for a three-year term 
(except where indicated otherwise) beginning January 1, 1974: 
Name 
Branch 
Rupert Warren 
Buffalo 
Clair F. Vough 
Cincinnati 
Roland R. Remmel 
Little Rock 
William H. Stroube 
Louisville 
Maurice B. Mitchell 
Denver (two-year term) 
Joseph H. Williams 
Oklahoma City (two-year term) 
Herbert M. Schwartz 
El Paso 

1313 
11/6/73 
-5-
Charles T. Beaird was appointed as Deputy Chairman of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas for the year 1974. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the appropriate Federal 
Reserve Banks whether the following persons would accept appointment 
if tendered as Reserve Bank or branch directors for the terms indicated, 
with the understanding that if it were found that they would accept, 
the appointments would be made: 
Kenneth I. Guscott, President, Ken Guscott Associates, Boston, 
Massachusetts, as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1974. 
Robert E. Kirby, President, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, as a Class C director of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 1974, with the understanding that if Mr. Kirby accepted 
the appointment, he would be appointed as Deputy Chairman for the 
year 1974. 
Jerold C. Hoffberger, President, National Brewing Company, 
Baltimore, Maryland, as a director of the Baltimore Branch 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond for the three-year 
term beginning January 1, 1974. 
Durward B. Varner, President, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, as a director of the Omaha Branch of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City for the two-year term beginning 
January 1, 1974. 
Irving A. Mathews, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
Officer, Frost Bros., Inc., San Antonio, Texas, and currently 
a director and Chairman of the San Antonio Branch, as a Class C 
director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas for the unexpired 
portion of the three-year term ending December 31, 1974. 
Margaret S. Wilson, President, Scarbrough's Department Store, 
Austin, Texas, as a director of the San Antonio Branch of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 19 74, should Mr. Mathews accept appointment as a 
Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 

4314 
11/6/73 
-6-
Thomas J. Barlow, President, Anderson, Clayton & Company, 
Houston, Texas, as a director of the Houston Branch of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas for the three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1974. 
(Note: It subsequently developed that Mr. Hoffberger would 
be unable to accept appointment. It having been ascertained 
that acceptances would be forthcoming, appointment telegrams 
were sent to the other persons listed.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

4315 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANK OF VIRGINIA COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Bank of Virginia Company, Richmond, Virginia, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842 
(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors1 qualify-
ing shares) of Bank of Virginia-Petersburg, Petersburg, Virginia 
("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views has been given in accord-
ance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views 
expired, and none has been timely received. The Board has con-
sidered the application in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is the fourth largest banking organization in 
Virginia and controls 15 banks with aggregate deposits of $1 billion, 
*>b;ich represents approximately 8.9 per cent of total deposits of com-
1/ 
mercial banks in the Commonwealth. 
Applicant presently controls two 
K 
I-' 
Dranch offices in the Petersburg market 
through Applicant's lead 
X/~~A11 banking data are as of June 30, 1973. 
y 
The market is approximated by the Petersburg SMSA, which includes 
the cities of Petersburg, Colonial Heights and Hopewell, and the 
Counties of Dinwiddie and Prince George. 
Item No. 1 
11/6/73 

4316 
- 2 -
bank, Bank of Virginia-Central. Bank of Virginia-Central branch offices 
rank third in the market with total deposits of $30.2 million, or 21 
Per cent of the total market deposits. However, due to Virginia's 
limited branching law, Bank of Virginia-Central cannot establish addi-
tional dj2 novo branches in the Petersburg market. Consequently, Appli-
cant has organized the proposed new bank which plans, upon consummation 
the proposal, to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of 
Petersburg office of Bank of Virginia-Central. 
The proposed transaction, as described above, would itself 
have no adverse effects on competition. However, approval of the 
Proposed acquisition would permit Applicant to substitute into the 
market area one of its affiliates, with full branching power, for 
another, which presently has no such power. The increased flexi-
bility which this reorganization will provide Applicant will enable 
it to compete more effectively with other locally based financial 
institutions in the market, as well as provide customers with a 
banking location more accessible to their homes and businesses. 
Thus, both competitive factors and convenience and needs considera-
tions weigh in favor of approval. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f A p p H c a n t and its subsidiaries are deemed good. Therefore, bank-
ing 
factors are consistent with approval of the application. It 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisi-
tion would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 

-3-
4317 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
ma<ie 
. ( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
fective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
that date, and (c) Bank of Virinia-Petersburg, Petersburg, Virginia, 
shall be opened for business not later than six months after the 
effective date of this Order. Each of the periods described in 
(b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
3/ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Brimmer, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Sheehan. 

4318 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/6/73 
MERCANTILE BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mercantile Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPplied for the Board's approval under Section 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U 
•c. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 1 0 0 per cent, but not less than 80 per cent, 
o f the voting shares of The Commerce Bank and Trust Company of Maryland, 
Bethesda, Maryland (Bank), an organizaing State bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e r s o n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
Section 3(b) of the Act and the time for filing comments and views has 
GxPired. The Board has considered the application in light of the 
factors set forth in Section 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
•4 
Applicant controls eight banks with aggregate deposits, as of 
J u ne 30, 1973, of $481.6 million, representing 6.7 per cent of the total-. 
dePQs.i.ts»of commercial banks in the State, It ranks as the. sixth largest bank-
in8 organization" in Maryland and controls, in addition to its eight banks, 
tu 
° ftonbanking subsidiaries. One of such subsidiaries is engaged in 
°rtgage financing and servicing and the other in commercial, specialized 
c°nsumer and second mortgage lending, factoring, lease financing and loan 
Sorvicing. 
Bank is an organizing State bank to be located in Bethesda, 
Viand, immediately north of Washington, D. C. Its approximate service 

4319 
- 2 -
a r e a would include Bethesda and the southern half of the surrounding 
Montgomery County. In this area 15 commercial banks, including the State s 
five largest, operated 88 offices as of June 30, 1972. Applicant's closest 
office to that of Bank is in the northern extreme of this market, approxi-
mately 12 miles away. It appears, however, that no significant competition 
w°uld develop between these offices because of the distance and inconvenience 
°f travel between the two. The Board therefore finds that approval of the 
aPPlication would not eliminate any significant existing or future competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant, its banks and Its bank-related subsidiaries are regarded as 
generally satisfactory. As an alternative source of banking service, 
Prospects for Bank appear favorable. Considerations relating to convenience 
and needs of the area to be served are consistent with approval of the 
aPplication. Accordingly, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application should 
approVGCi. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
Masons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and The Commerce 
Bank and Trust Company of Maryland, Bethesda, Maryland, shall be opened for 

43^0 
-3-
business not later than six months after the effective date of this Order. 
Each of the latter two periods may be extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
A/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
dimmer, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Sheehan. 

43^1 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/6/73 
UNITED FIRST FLORIDA BANKS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United First Florida Banks, Inc., Tampa, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire at least 90 per cent of the outstanding 
v°ting shares of Boynton Beach First National Bank and Trust, Boynton 
Beach, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for Interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
ft 
s 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
noi*e have been received. The application has been considered in light of 
factors set out in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant has thirty-two subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
of $ 1 
>182.7 million. 
Acquisition of Bank, which has deposits of $28.1 
Dillon will increase Applicant's share of state-wide deposits (6.17%) 
ky only .14 per cent, and would increase Applicant's share of market 
dePosits (4.4%) to 7.0 per cent. 
Bank is the fourteenth largest of 31 banks in West Palm Beach 
Banking data are as of December 31, 1972, unless otherwise 
nclicated, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved by the Board through October 1, 1973. 

43^2 
- 2 -
2/ 
County, Florida, the relevant banking market. 
Applicant is presently 
^presented by one banking subsidiary in the market which is the tenth 
largest bank therein, located eleven miles north of Bank. From the facts 
record, it appears that the proposed acquisition would not eliminate 
significant existing competition, nor is it likely that substantial competi 
tion would develop in the future. Furthermore, in view of Bank's relative 
size and market share, it does not appear that consummation herein would 
enable Applicant to acquire a dominant position in the market. 
The banking needs of the community are being met by organizations 
l n the market. Applicant will provide to Bank its expertise in the fields 
investments and lending, and will also be a source of trained personnel. 
Convenience and needs factors lend weight to approval. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank, in view 
Applicant's commitments to furnish additional equity capital to other 
subsidiary banks and an expected commitment to supplement Bank's capital, 
a re regarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval. It is the 
®°ard's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record in this case, the application is 
aPproved for the reasons summarized above. However, the transaction shall 
n°t be made (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
The West Palm Beach County banking market is approximated by the 
uPper two-thirds of Palm Beach County. 

43^3 
-3-
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 6, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
^J Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
ritnmer, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Sheehan. 

m
m
-
' 
•fc 
IS il | if !f, 43J|4 
Item No. 4 
11/6/73 
P°r Immediate Release 
November 15, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today announced 
Qlnend&ient: of its Regulation Y to permit bank holding companies to engage in 
tK 
0 courier service business under an extensive set of limitations and con-
dit- • 
C3-ons designed to enhance competition and ensure other public benefits. 
At the same time, the Board announced that with respect to armored 
Cav 
services, it finds the hearing record inconclusive and is consequently 
aking p 0 action on this proposed activity. 
Together with its decisions, the Board issued a Statement summarizing 
Record compiled from extensive proceedings over the past two years -- in-
c*u<Ung hearings and a Hearing Officer's recommendations -- on which the 
based its decisions. The Statement also included a record of the Board's 
r°cedural rulings and the conclusions reached in deciding that 
Serv 
courier 
ices are closely related to banking. Hie Board's Order amending Regulation 
X 
1 a n d its Statement, are attached. 
The Board's Order listed the following types of courier services 
tllat bank holding companies could provide, subject to approval of individual 
"''Plications: 
Courier services for: 
-- the internal operations of the applying holding company and 
its subsidiaries; 
-- checks, commercial papers, documents and written instruments 
as are exchanged among banks and banking institutions (but 
excluding currency and bearer type negotiable instruments); 

43<w5 
- 2 ~ 
-- data processing materials such as audit and accounting media 
of a banking or financial, nature, and business records and 
documents used in processing such media. 
The Board accompanied its ruling regarding courier services with 
a n interpretation regarding the scope of courier activities the Board intends 
to n •> ' 
Permit, and set forth three principles that should be followed to ensure 
CJUiiermnce of competition among couriers. The interpretation said: 
The Board's amendment of Regulation Y which adds courier 
services to the list of closely related activities is intended 
to permit bank holding companies to transport time critical 
materials of limited intrinsic value of types utilized by-
banks and bank related firms in performing their business in-
cluding check clearing and other activities such as the 
processing of financially related economic data. The authority 
is not intended to permit holding companies to engage generally 
in the provision of transportation services. However, the 
furnishing of courier services for nonfinancially related 
material (such as human blood, exposed and processed film, 
repair parts and cut flowers) upon the specific unsolicited 
request of a third party when courier services are not other-
wise reasonably available may be regarded as an incidental 
activity of a bank related courier. 
The Board said it believes that adherance to the following 
principles will eliminate or reduce to an insignificant degree 
any possibility of unfair competition: 
"a. A holding company couricr subsidiary.should be a separate 
independent corporate entity, not merely a servicing arm 
of a bank. 
"b. As such, the subsidiary should exist as a separate, profit-
oriented operation and should riot be subsidized by the 
holding company system. 
"e. Services performed should be explicitly priced, and shall 
not be paid for indirectly, for example, on the basis of 
deposits maintained at or loan arrangements with affiliated 
banks.M 
Pursuant to the intended scope of permissible courier services, 
the above principles, the Board said entry of holding companies into 

43^(5 
- 3 -
courier activities•that is, Board action, upon'applications --•would be 
conditioned as follows: 
-- The courier subsidiary shall perform services on an 
explicit fee basis and shall be structured as an individual 
profit center...The Board may regard operating losses sus-
tained over an extended period as being inconsistent with 
continued authority to engage in courier services. 
-- Courier services performed on behalf of an affiliate's 
customer shall be paid for by the customer on a direct 
basis, and not by indirect arrangements. 
-- The courier subsidiary should make publicly known its 
minimum rate, schedule for performing services, must furnish 
comparable services at comparable rates for any requesting 
bank or data processing firm providing financially related 
data processing services unless compliance would be beyond 
the courier subsidiary's practical capacity, and. will be 
expected to maintain, for at least two years, any applications 
for service that it denies, together with its reasons. 
In its Statement accompanying its decision the. Board said it was 
influenced in determining courier services to be closely related to banking 
b y the historical evidence indicating that commercial courier services as 
prcsently conducted began as a means of expediting the movement cf checks 
for clearance and were accordingly, and are still, chiefly utilised by the 
inking community. Further, the Board noted, courier transportation of 
cHcks for clearance has bccome a vital element in the payments mechanism, 
is central to the operation of banks with branching systems, and is 
important to bank-related data processing or t6 data processing generally. 
In line with its ruling as to the permissible scope of courier 
Services, the Board's Statement noted that historically courier services 
involved transportation of things that have a critical time schedule, 
arc small in bulk, light in weight and require only ordinary security 
Measures. 

43Jw 
- 4 -
As to public benefits, the Board found t:hac the record suggests 
c°nco.ntration in the courier industry is high. Consequently, the Board con-
'•^ded that the entry of bank holding companies into the courier field could 
Cn,-fif: the public, and add to the convenience of banking, by injecting new 
^Petition. 
The Board itself will consider requests to engage in courier ser-
iCt"s kecause it wishes to examine the public benefit aspect of each application 
°ely. Accordingly, the Board suspended in this case the procedures ordi-
n a r y 
y available to bank holding companies that wish to engage de novo in an 
activi t- i 
iCy determined by the Board to be closely related to banking. 
The Board denied all exceptions made to the Hearing Officer's 
tended Decision, to the extent they are inconsistent with the Board's 
aiid interpretation* and its accompanying Statement, and denied requests 
for f 
in 
further oral arguments and motions for inclusion of additional material 
the record of proceedings in the case. With respect to exceptions to the 
Officer's findings and recommendations, the Board said that many of 
introverted issues could be better explored in connection with individual 
^Plicaf-f 
<*i-2.ons to engage in courier services. The Board concluded that further 
1 Suments would be unlikely to add information not: already in the 
t6cord. 
The Board proposed -- for public comment -- in November 1971 that 
G r and armored car services might be made permissible activities for 
,u-aing companies. After receiving comment; the Board scheduled a 
nC for December 1971. This was postponed twice, at the request of 
parties. A Hearing Officer was appointed and hearings were 

4328 
.. 5 -
inducted February 29 and March I, J972, with regard to courier services, 
bitten statements were submitted on armored car services, consideration of 
v?hich had meantime been split from courier services. The Hearing Officer 
filed his recommendations with the Board in June 1972. Since that time, the 
B°srd has considered the record, exceptions taken to the Hearing Officer's 
^commendations, requests for further oral hearings, and has asked for, 
r<?ceived and made available to all parties additional information. 
- 0 -
v 

43^9 
TITLE 12—-BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 225—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
By notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal 
Agister on November 17, 1971 (36 F.R. 21897), the Board of Governors 
Proposed to add armored car and courier services to the list 
activities that it has determined under section 4(c)(8) of the 
p,ank Holding Company Act to be closely related to banking or managing 
controlling banks by amending section 225.4(a) of the Board's 
Regulation Y. Subsequently, the Board designated a hearing officer 
tr> 
the proceedings and ordered separate, but consecutive, 
hearings on armored car and courier services. The Hearing Officer 
conducted a hearing on February 29 and March 1, 1972 and forwarded 
a Recommended Decision to the Board in June 1972. Comments and 
exceptions thereto were filed by the participants in the proceeding. 
The Board has considered all of the material submitted 
ky the participants to the Hearing Officer, those materials in the 
^Board's public information file which were considered by the Hearing 
Officer, the Hearing Officer's Recommended Decision, comments and 
exceptions to the Recommended Decisions arid certain additional material 
V;hich was brought to the attention of all parties. After considering 
a H relevant aspects of the proposal to add armored car and courier 

4330 
- 2 -
services Co the list of closely related activities, the Board has 
determined to add certain courier activities to the list and to 
take no action to amend Regulation Y with regard to the armored 
car services. 
It Is Hereby Ordered, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's accompanying Statement of this date, that section 22.5.4(a) 
of Regulation Y is amended by adding subparagraph (11) as set forth 
below effective November 15> 1973; 
§ 225.4 Nonbanking Activities 
(a) Activities closely related to banking or managing 
or controllin^^banjcs. 
* 
* 
* 
The following activities have 
been determined by the Board to be so closely related 
to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a 
proper incident thereto: 
>V 
* 
* 
* 
vV 
(11) providing courier services (i) for the internal 
operations of the holding company and its subsidiaries; 
(ii) for checks, commercial papers, documents> and written 
instruments (excluding currency or bearer-type negotiable 
instruments) as are exchanged among banks and banking 
Institutions; (iii) for audit and accounting media of a 

-3-
4331 
banking or financial nature and other business records 
1 
and documents used in processing such media,~f 
•k 
i: 
-k 
>\ 
* 
3a/ Applications to engage de novo in providing courier 
services should be filed in accordance with the procedures 
of § 225.4(b)(2) rather than § 225.4(b)(1). See also the 
Board's interpretation on courier activities (12 CFR 225.129), 
which sets forth conditions for holding company entry 
pursuant to § 4(c)(8). 
All exceptions to the Hearing Officer's Recommended Decision 
are hereby denied to the extent they are inconsistent with this 
Order and accompanying Statement. 
Requests for oral argument before the Board with regard 
to courier services and motions for the inclusion of additional 
material in the record of these proceedings have been considered 
by the Board and are hereby denied for the reasons set fort}) in 
the Board's accompanying Statement. 
The Board has also adopted an interpretation relating 
to courier services, as set forth below: 
§ 225.129 Activities closely related t:o banking. 
Courier activities. The Board's amendment of § 225.4(a), 
which adds courier services to the list of closely related activities 
is intended to permit holding companies to transport time critical 
Materials of limited intrinsic value of the types utilized by banks 
and bank-related firms in performing their business activities. 

-4-
Such transportation activities are of particular importance in the 
check clearing process of the banking system, but are also important 
to the performance of other activities, including the processing 
of financially-related economic data. The authority is not intended 
to permit holding companies to engage generally in the provision 
of transportation services, l-lcwever, the furnishing of courier 
services for nonfinancially-related material upon the specific, 
unsolicited request of a third party when courier services are not-
otherwise reasonably available may be regarded as an incidental 
activity of a bank-related courier. 
During the course of the Board's proceedings pertaining 
to courier services, objections were made that courier activities 
were not a proper incident to banking because of the possibility 
that holding companies would or had engaged in unfair competitive 
Practices. The Board believes that adherence to the following principles 
will eliminate or reduce to an insignificant degree any possibility 
of unfair competition: 
a. A holding company courier subsidiary established under 
5 4(c)(8) should be a separate, independent corporate 
entity, not merely a servicing arm of a bank. 
b. As such, the subsidiary should exist as a separate, 
profit-oriented operation and should not be subsidized 
by the holding company system. 

4333 
c« Services performed should be explicitly priced, and 
shall not be paid for indirectly, for example, on the 
basis of deposits maintained at or loan arrangements 
with affiliated banks. 
Accordingly, entry of holding companies into courier activities 
cm the basis of $ 4(c)(8) will be conditioned as follows: 
1• The courier subsidiary shall perform services on 
an cxpliclj^ee_basis^ and shall be structured as an 
IncU^dual_ profit center designed to be opera t_od_oiwi 
i 
profitable basis. The Board may regard operating 
losses sustained over an extended period as being 
inconsistent with continued authority to engage in 
courier activities. 
2• Courier services performed on behalf of an 
affiliate1s customer (such as the carriage of incoming 
cash letters) shall be paid for by the customer. Such 
payments shall not be made indirectly, for example,, 
on the basis of imputed earnings on deposits maintained 
at or of loan arrangements with subsidiaries of the 
holding company. 
1 
Concern has also been expressed that bank-affiliated courier services 
will be utilized to gain a competitive advantage over firms competing 

~ 4334 
-6-
with other holding company affiliates. To reduce the possibility 
that courier affiliates might be so employed, the Board will impose 
the following third condition: 
3• Th^_ courier subsidiary shall, when requested by 
any bank or any data processing firm providing financially-
^Ijited data processing services which firm competes_wirtw* 
banking or data processing subsidiary of Applicant^ furnish 
comparable service at comparable rates, unless compliance with 
such request would be beyond the courier subsidiary's practical 
capacity. In this regard, the courier subsidiary should make 
known to the public its minimum rate schedule for services and 
its general pricing policies thereto. The courier subsidiary is 
also expected to maintain, for a reasonable period of time (not 
less than two years) each request denied with the reasons for 
such denial. 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective November 15, 
1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
M) 

4335 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING BANK HOLDING COMPANIES PERFORMING 
ARMORED CAR AND COURIER SERVICES 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 4(c)(8) OF THE BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
Procedural Background. 
By notice published November 17, 1971 (36 F.R. 21897), the Board 
bounced proposed rulemaking under § 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company 
to permit holding companies to engage in "performing or carrying on 
atmored car or courier services." 
A hearing was scheduled to be held befor< 
Mailable members of the Board on December 10, 1971. A motion for an exten-
S:ion of time and for the institution of formal rulemaking procedures was 
f J i 
G(1* by the National Courier Association and the National Armored Car 
Ociation. The Board granted the motion in part by delaying the hearing 
to January 19, 1972, but denied the request for formal rulemaking 
lures conducted in accordance with §§ 556 and 557 of Title 5 of the 
Unit 
Proced, 
G<* States Code (37 F.R. 938). Subsequently, the Board further postponed 
ti 
bearing until February 10, 1972, and designated a hearing officer to 
c°nduct the proceedings (37 F.R. 1251). The Board stated that although the 
Hts-w., 
would not be conducted pursuant to §§ 556 and 557 of Title 5, a 
tCi formal proceeding than originally proponed would be conducted. At 
a m e time, the Board granted a request for separate consideration of 
tlIl0red car and courier services, denied requests for reconsideration of 
thG v0 
request for formal proceedings under §§ 556 and 557 of Title 5, and 
a a request for access to intra-agency memoranda considered by the 
m deciding to announce its proposed rulemaking regarding armored 

.. 4336 
- 2. -
| 
car and courier services* 
The designated Hearing Officer held a prehearing 
conference on February 4, 1972 and postponed the scheduled hearings until 
February 29. On February 29 and March 1, 1972, a hearing was conducted 
I 
with regard to courier services. Written statements were submitted on the 
armored car activity, but no separate oral presentations were made with 
If 
regard to that activity.™ 
The Hearing Officer filed his Recommended 
^e'Cislon, and comments and exceptions thereto were filed by the parties, 
ttoard requested certain additional material to supplement the record 
I 
Qnd all parties were apprised of the request and the replies thereto. 
Among the exceptions filed were objections that the proceedings 
f 
were not conducted in accordance with 55 556 and 557 of Title 5, that the 
He 
earing Officer failed to permit cross-examination by parties, and that he 
er'£ed in relying upon material in the Board's public information file, almost 
of which had been submitted by the public in response to the Board's 
November notice of proposed rulemaking. The Board has previously determined 
^at its rulemaking procedures under section 4(c)(8) are legislative rather 
tban adversary in nature and are not subject to the procedures of §§ 
556 and 
55? of Title 5. The Board has concluded that the written interrogatories 
Permitted by the Hearing Officer in the interest of a more complete record 
a u d the Hearing Officer's reliance upon the Board's public file relating 
t o the proceedings was appropriate to the rulemaking nature of the hearing 
a n d consistent with the Board's Order granting his authority. Many of the 
y 
0ue~oraT7>rcseutation made during the courier hearing pertained primarily 
t o armored car services. 

4337 
- 3 -
controverted issues between the participants in these proceedings, for 
Sample, the private pricing policies of an individual courier affiliate, 
ay be more appropriately explored at the time individual bank holding 
companies apply to engage in courier activities. 
Three of the participants in the courier proceedings have requested 
argument before the Board. The Board has denied those requests in the 
accompanying Order because it concluded that oral argument would be unlikely 
0 provide information not presently in the record. Purolator Courier 
0irPoration has also made a motion to include in the record correspondence 
between itself and the Board related to permitting existing courier subsi-
diaries of bank holding companies to bid for and to be awarded contracts to 
Provide courier services for the Regional Check Processing Centers of the 
federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. An objection to the holding companies bid-
for the-courier services contracts and a request to reopen the record were 
also filed by the Independent Bankers Association of America. The Board has 
denied these motions to incorporate additional material into the record 
ecause in its judgment such material is not relevant to the issue of whether 
o^riet services are so closely related to banking or managing or controlling 
Panics as to be a proper incident thereto. 
^ 
Courier Services. 
A. Relationship to Banking. 
When the Board announced its proposal to include courier activities 
a n a permissible activity for bank holding companies, the Board stated it 
Ua3erstood that courier services involve 

4338 
- 4 -
. . . . the transportation cf important items 
having critical time schedules. The items 
involved are generally not bearer type 
instruments, and accordingly, require only 
the ordinary security measures accorded any 
confidential business papers. Among the most 
common documents and related items carried by 
messenger service are checks, drafts, money 
orders, travelers checks, commercial papers, 
written instruments and data processing 
material. 
The record indicates that courier services involve transportation 
of any item with a critical time schedule, provided such items are small in 
K n 
c» light in weight, and require only ordinary security measures. Thus, 
n Edition to the items listed above, such items as human blood, exposed 
and processed film, repair parts, and cut flowers are moved by courier. 
Commercial courier services as they are presently conducted began 
a means of expediting the movement of checks, and accordingly such services 
WGl"e utilized primarily by banks and the banking community. Prior to the 
^QVei°pment of commercial courier services, checks had been moved by mail, 
rail, and private carriage (including messengers). Although in recent 
the percentage of revenues derived from courier services performed for 
banking community appears to have declined> the banking community remains 
Primary source of courier revenues. 
1/ 
It appears to be undisputed that courier services for cash letters 
p]... 
ciy a Vital role in the check clearing process. Similarly, it appears 
& 
The term "'cash letters" commonly refers to a closed envelope, package or 
sent by one bank to another bank or clearing center containing checks, 
and money orders which have been cashed or deposited in a bank by its 
stomers and which are being forwarded to another bank or clearing center for 
jessing. The checks, drafts, and money orders are restrictively endorsed 
•n are tabulated on an enclosed document. 

4339 
Un<*tsputed that courier services are important to bank-related data processing 
0 r to data processing generally. 
The record indicates that a number of banksf particularly those 
which operate a significant number of branches, engage in the transportation 
such items as checks, Internal memoranda and data processing material 
between branches, and that three bank holding companies, all of which became 
subject to the Bank Holding Company Act as a result of the 1970 Amendments, 
a i e engaged in providing "for hire" courier service. 
Opponents of holding company entry contend that courier services 
a r e essentially transportation services that require technology and expertise 
^ving little in common with traditional banking activities and should not 
be regarded as closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks 
0r)' the basis that banks are the primary user of such services. Those support-
n8 entry argue that courier services are closely related to banking and 
P a g i n g and controlling banks In the sense of being an increasingly integral 
Pa*'t of modern day banking with its emphasis on high speed computers and 
t-llG importance of swift bank clearances. They also rely upon decisions of 
tllG interstate Commerce Commission which recognize the transportation of cash 
1(5tters as a distinct type of contract carriage treating all banks as one ship-
'•••The Hearing Officer finds that courier service is an essential part of the 
pre"8ent process by which banks effect check collections and also is essential 
4. 
0 the performance of data processing activities by banks or nonbanks for 
ai*s and is thus closely related to banking. His recommendation would 
permit the carriage of financially-related data processing materials, 

_ 4310 
- 6 -
such as audit media utilized in the preparation of payrolls, for nonbank 
customers. Transportation of the type afforded by a courier service 
frequently is necessary to the efficient and timely processing of such 
audit media. 
Among the exceptions filed are those objecting to the Hearing 
Officer's determination insofar as any for hire courier activities are 
found to be closely related to banking and those which characterize the 
^caring Officer's proposed definition of permissible courier services as 
ainMguous. 
The Board finds that the transportation of cash letters has been 
i 
°° integrated into the process by which checks are collected as to be part 
Cj" 
present payments mechanism. The transportation of data processing 
Materials (such as materials utilized in demand deposit accounting) between 
batiks appears to be in connection with the provision of correspondent bank 
e*"vices and may be in conjunction with the processing of cash letters. 
TVt 
G transportation of financially-related data processing materials is 
Elated to, and supports the provision of, data processing services of 
ypes furnished by banks and bank-related companies. Accordingly, the 
^°ard has concluded that courier services of the type described above are 
close].y related to banking or controlling or managing banks. The Board 
as revised the Hearing Officer's proposed definition of permissible courier 
Services for greater clarity. 
B. Public Benefits Considerations. 
The Courier Industry. The courier industry provides the portal-
t"°"Portal transportation of important items with critical time schedules. 
Th 
e time periods involved are of relatively short duration—usually less 

4311 
- 7 -
tban 12 hours. There appear to be only a limited number of courier films 
having substantial operations in terms of revenues and geographic areas 
served, although many smaller courier companies operate on a local basis. 
The record suggests concentration in the courier industry is high, and 
the size distribution within the industry highly skewed with the pioneer 
firm being by far the largest firm. The relevant geographic market for 
evaluating the competitive effects of a given holding company entry would 
appear to be local or regional in nature. 
The economic unit of the courier industry is the route consisting 
o f a cluster of customers served by the same vehicle. Each route is limited 
V7ith respect to the number and location of customers that can be served 
as determined by mileage and tiire factors, traffic density, road conditions 
the proximity of customers to one another. The record indicates there 
are many routes presently served by only one courier firm. 
The provision of for hire courier services may be regulated by 
3/ 
individual states with respect to intrastate transportation" and by the 
interstate Commerce Commission with respect to interstate transportation. 
Some states do not regulate courier services, and there arc numerous excep-
tions to the Interstate Commerce Act (particularly with regard to carriage 
Within metropolitan areas) which exempt courier companies from any require-
ment of approval for entry. 
Contentions of the Parties. The main thrust of the arguments of 
those favoring holding company entry is that due to the lack of competition 
in many areas of the country, the courier industry has not satisfactorily 
suggested that, for purposes of the applicable 
transportation statutes, carriage of cash letters involved interstate commerce 
in all instances, but it appears that such carriage may often involve only 
intrastate commerce. 

4342 
net al3 of the transportation needs of Che banking community. 
Accordingly, 
holding company entry will increase competition within the courier industry 
and lead to greater convenience and increased efficiencies for those 
utilizing courier services. Opponents of the proposed regulation assert 
that the courier industry is presently highly competitive and holding company 
entry is motivated by the desire to utilize courier services as a means of 
furthering the business goals of their banking subsidiaries. 
Accordingly, 
folding company entry will lead to decreased avid unfair competition as well 
as creating a possibility of other adverse effects. They further argue 
that holding company entry will violate State bank branching laws and the 
Prohibition of the payment of interest on demand deposits. 
T h e faring Officer concluded that 
the record would not support a determination that all holding company entries 
into the courier business would be in the public interest. However, implicit 
in his recommendation is a finding that holding company entry is likely to 
be in the public interest in a sufficient number of instances to justify 
a conclusion that courier services, as he defines and conditions them, are 
so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. He further 
U n d s that neither Regulation Q nor the prohibitions in many States of branch 
banking constitute a real impediment to holding companies engaging in courier 
services. 
The conditions he recommends essentially require: 
(1) a bank 
holding company and its courier affiliate shall not represent courier 
services as free and shall make available to prospective users the schedule 

4313 
• 9 -
minimum rates and charges fox the service and policies and practices 
i n relation thereto; and (2) a courier subsidiary shell, when requested 
any bank competing with a subsidiary bank of the holding company, furnish 
comparable service at comparable rates to such competing bank, unless 
c°mplianee with such request is beyond its practical capacity. 
y -
Comments and Exceptions to the Reccr.mended Decision. Araon/r'thc 
c0mw.ents and exceptions filed were objections to the lack of a specific con-
clusion that courier services are a proper incident to banking, objections 
to effectiveness of the proposed conditions, and objections on the basis 
the Hearing Officer understated the structural clangers and overestimated 
^ 
ability of. regulatory agencies lo focus upon and curtail unfair competitive 
N o t i c e s . 
Exceptions were also filed with regard Lo the Hearing Officer's 
sion that neither Regulation Q nor State branch banking statutes posed 
impediment t:c holding company entry. 
SSCUSSION. The Board has considered the relevant aspects of the courier 
Proposal, including the arguments of the parties, the Recommended Decision 
the exceptions and comments the^-tv/. With respect to the allegations 
unfair competition-, "the Board has concluded that adherence to the following 
Principles would eliminate or reduce to an insignificant degree any possibility 
unfair competitive practices vis a vis other courier firms, while at the 
time permitting the possibility of holding company entry adding to the 
competitive pressures within the courier industry. 
Such pressures 
a l G O 
*C8ult in greater convenience for purchasers of courier services and are likely, 
certain instances, to result in increased efficiencies in the processing 

- 1 0 -
4314 
cash letters. The principles also assure the ability of a purchaser 
courier services from a holding company affiliate to ascertain precisely 
t^e costs of such services. The principles are: 
a. A holding company courier subsidiary established under 
§ 4(c)(8) should be a separate, independent corporate entity$ 
not merely a servicing arm of a bank. 
b. As such, the subsidiary should exist as a separate, 
profit oriented operation and should not be subsidized by the 
holding company system. 
c. Services performed should be explicitly priced and 
should not be paid for on the basis of correspondent bank 
balances or other demand deposits maintained at affiliated 
banks. 
Accordingly, entry of holding companies into courier activities 
011 the basis of § 4(c)(0) will be conditioned as follows: 
1. The courier subsidiary shall perform services on an 
explicit fee basis and shall be structured as an Individual 
profit center designed co be operated on a profitable basis. 
The Board may regard operating losses sustained over an extended 
period as being inconsistent with continued authority to engage 
in courier activities. 
2. Courier services performed on behalf of an affiliate's 
customer (such as carriage of incoming cash letters) shall 
be paid for by the customer. Such payments shall not be made 
indirectly, for example on the basis of imputed earnings of 
deposits maintained at or loan arrangements with subsidiaries 
of the holding company. 
The Hearing Officer's proposed condition requiring the provision 
comparable courier services to competing banks was designed to assure 
courier services would not be used as a competitive tool In gaining 
e°rrespondent bank deposits. The Board will extend this condition to apply 
any data processing firm engaged in providing financially-related data 
^cessing which firm competes with a banking or data processing subsidiary 

4315 
~ 11 -
an applicant. Thus, the Board intends to impose the following third 
c°ndition upon holding company entry: 
3. The courier subsidiary shall, when requested by any 
bank or any data processing firm providing financially-related 
data processing services which firm competes with a banking or 
data processing subsidiary of Applicant, furnish comparable 
services at comparable rates, unless compliance with such 
request would be beyond the courier subsidiary's practical capacity. 
In this regard, the courier subsidiary should make known to the 
public its minimum rate schedule for services and its general 
pricing policies thereto. The courier subsidiary is also expected 
to maintain for a reasonable period of time each request denied 
with the reasons for such denial. 
» 
The Board has considered other possible adverse effects of 
f^tn&ttirig holding company entry, such as undue concentration of resources, 
c°nf.Licts of Interest, or unsound banking practices and has concluded that 
'be possibility of these adverse effects generally being significant is 
The question of whether holding company entry would violate State 
bank branching laws and constitute an unsound banking practice or unfair 
competition is separately discussed below as are issues pertaining to 
filiation Q. 
State Branch:'ng Laws. The Eoard has concluded that the operation 
£ courier service under the conditions set forth above would not consti-
tute branch banking. The courier subsidiary would be a separate corporation, 
ather than an additional place of business of the bank. The Board sees no 
r°ason to attribute the activities of a courier subsidiary operated in 
Accordance with the Board's conditions to an affiliated bank or banks. 
Accordingly, the Board does not regard State branching laws as an impediment 
t o the amendment of Regulation Y to permit holding companies to engage in 

43'1G 
- 12 -
c°urler services. Furthermore, the Board has considerable doubt that the 
branch banking laws are applicable to interbank transactions involving cash 
let 
ters-, which have long been regarded in terras of correspondent banking 
r "i I* v. 
r t h a n branch banking. The Board does not regard either First National 
^ ^ • ^ D l c k i n s o n , 396 U.S. 122 (1969), or Jackson v. First National Bank of 
292 F. Supp. 156 (1968); affm'd. 430 F. 2d 1200 (5th Cir., 1970); 
^en, 401 U.S. 947 (1971), as controlling with regard to permitting 
°ld:Lng companies to engage in courier services. 
Regulation fi. Another issue, raised in these proceedings, is 
Aether the payment by a bank to a courier firm of the charges for trans-
port ;« • 
no incoming cash letters of correspondent banks constitutes the pay-
inem-. , r. • 
o r interest to the correspondent banks on demand deposits held at 
the 
4/ 
G b a n k • 
Since the payment of Interest issue is present regardless of 
Aether or not the courier firm is a holding company affiliate, the interest 
i 
is only collaterally related to the proposed determination that 
011 tier services are closely related to banking. Nevertheless, as the 
int 
etest issue has been raised in the context of this proceeding, the 
°atd's views concerning the issue are presented below. 
Any determination concerning whether or not a prohibited payment 
Of -j 
interest has been made must be based on the specific factual circumstances 
lV°lved. Two specific factual situations arc presented in the record of 
i/ 
1 9 ° f t h G Federal Reserve Act prohibits member banks from paying 
rlet°rnQt ° n deraarid deposits (12 U.S.C. 371(a)), bur. authorizes the Board'to 
^ 
ei*ininc what shall be deemed a payment of interest (12 U.S.C. 461). Tn 
a c t i o n Q, the Board has stated that any payment to or for the account of 
^depositor, as compensation for the use of funds constituting a deposit, 
be considered interest (12 CFR 217.2(b)). 

4347 
- 13 -
this proceeding. In one situation, a bank (Bank A) gives its correspondent 
hanks the option of the correspondent bank making direct payments for courier 
services to the firm rendering such services, or to having payments made by 
Bank A to the courier firm on the basis of traditional account analysis. 
Such paymentsj whan made by Bank A, are paid to a separate courier corpora-
tion and are more than nominal in amount. While such payments are not made 
ivectly to the deposit account of the correspondent bank, the payments are 
identifiably made, on behalf of the correspondent bank on the basis of deposits 
Maintained at Bank A. Based on these facts and other facts of record, the 
Board has concluded that.such payments by Bank A to the courier on the basis 
traditional account analysis may be viewed as an indirect payment of 
interest to the account of a depositor as compensation for the use of funds. 
second factual situation presented involves a bank paying the courier expense 
£°r incoming cash letters of other banks and treating the payments as part of 
X c S overhead expenses. Payments for courier services are in some cases made 
f°r banks not maintaining correspondent balances. In this factual situation, 
lhe Board has concluded that no payment of interest is involved. 
De Novo Procedures. Because of the limited number of firms providing 
c°urier services in many markets, the Board itself desires to fully consider 
the public benefits aspects of each application to engage in courier services. 
Accordingly, the Board has determined that the de novo procedures of § 223.4(b) 
(i) should not be utilized by an applicant's seeking to engage in courier 
Rervices and that an application must be filed under the provisions of 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of Regulation Y. 

4318 
- 14 -
Conclusion. The Board has considered whether or not performance 
by a holding company affiliate can reasonably be. expected to produce public 
benefits, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in 
efficiency that outweigh potential adverse effects such as undue concentration 
resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or 
unsound banking practices. For the reasons stated above, the Board has con-
cluded that the balance of public interest factors it ir» required to weigh 
i s likely to be favorable in a sufficient number of instances to justify 
adding certain courier services to the list of activities the Board has 
determined to be cJ.osely related to banking. Accordingly, the Board has 
included that certain courier services as enumerated in § 225.4 (a)(11) are 
e° closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a 
Proper incident thereto. 
Armored Car Services. 
The Board has examined the record of the proposed amendment to 
Regulation Y with respect to adding armored car services to the list of 
activities the Board has found to be closely related to bank.-ing and has 
found the evidence of record to be inconclusive. The Board notes that the 
rGcord is virtually devoid of evidence in support of the proposed amendment, 
•therefore, if af some future time a holding company applies pursuant to 
§ 4(c)(8) to engage in armored car services, such holding company shall, in 
Meeting its burden of demonstrating that its proposed activiites are so 
closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, specifically 
address the evidence of record submitted in this proceeding. Such evidence 
be available at the Board and at each of the Federal Reserve Banks. 

431.9 
' TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 5 
11/6/73 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Part 266--Limitations on Activities 
of Former Members and 
Employees of the Board 
By notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal 
Register on September 21, 1973 (38 F.R. 26469), the Board of Governors 
proposed to adopt rules to limit the activities of former members and 
employees of the Board in matters connected with their duties or official 
responsibilities while serving with the Board. 
Although the Federal Criminal Code applies criminal sanctions 
against former officers and employees of the Government whose activities 
involve a conflict of interest or an appearance of such conflict, it is 
believed that rules of the Board as to personal appearance before the 
Board or the Federal Reserve Banks would provide additional protection 
to the public as well as to both present and former employees. The 
adoption of such rules seems particularly desirable in view of the 
increase in the last few years in the number of the Board's employees 
and in the Board's responsibilities in areas that require applications 
for its approval. 
Accordingly, the Board adopts the following new Part 266, to 
be effective November 6, 1973: 

4350 
- 2 -
PART 266. LIMITATIONS ON ACTIVITIES OF 
FORMER MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE BOARD 
SECTION 266.1 - BASIS AND SCOPE 
This Part, issued under authority of section ll(i) of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(i)), and pursuant to section 552 
of Title 5 of the United States Code, which requires that every agency 
shall publish in the Federal Register its rules of procedure, relates 
to limitations on former members and employees of the Board with 
respect to participation in matters connected with their former duties 
1/ 
and official responsibilities while serving with the Board. 
SECTION 266.2 - DEFINITIONS 
(a) "Employee" means a regular officer or employee of the 
2/ 
Board; it does not include a consultant to the Board. 
i 
(b) "Official responsibility", with respect to a matter, 
means administrative, supervisory, or decisional authority, whether 
intermediate or final, exercisable alone or with others, personally or 
through subordinates, to approve, disapprove, decide, or recommend Board 
action or to express staff opinions in dealings with the public. 
.1/ While the Board has not adopted rules with regard to the disclosure 
of unpublished information by former Board members and employees, it 
advises such persons not to disclose unpublished information of the 
Board obtained in the course of their work. Questions in this regard 
may be addressed to the General Counsel or the Secretary of the Board. 
2/ While former consultants to the Board are not covered by these Rules, 
they appear to fall within the coverage of section 207 of the United 
States Criminal Code (18 U.S.C. § 207) that provides criminal penalties 
for engaging in activities similar, although not identical, to those 
described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 266.3 of this Part. 

-3- 
4351 
(c) "Appear personally" includes personal appearance or atten-
dance before, or personal communication, either written or oral, with the 
Board or a Federal Reserve Bank or any member or employee thereof, or 
personal participation in the formulation or preparation of any material 
presented or communicated to, or filed with, the Board, in connection with 
any application or interpretation arising under the statutes or regulations 
administered by the Board or the Federal Reserve Banks, except that requests 
for general information or explanations of Board policy or interpretation 
shall not be construed to be a personal appearance. 
SECTION 266.3 - LIMITATIONS 
(a) Matters on which Board member or employee worked. No 
former member or employee of the Board shall appear personally before the 
Board or a Federal Reserve Bank on behalf of anyone other than the United 
States, an agency thereof, or a Federal Reserve Bank, in connection with 
any judicial or other proceeding, application, request for ruling or 
determination,or other particular matter involving a specific party or 
parties in which the United States, an agency thereof, or a Federal Reserve 
Bank is also a party or has a direct and substantial interest and in which 
he participated personally and substantially as a member or employee of the 
Board through approval, disapproval, decision, recommendation, advice, 
investigation or otherwise. 
(b) Matters within Board member or employee's official 
responsibility. No former member or employee of the Board shall appear 
personally before the Board or a Federal Reserve Bank on behalf of 
anyone other than the United States, an agency thereof, or a Federal 
Reserve Bank, in connection with any judicial or other proceeding, 

4352 
-4-
application, request for ruling or determination, or other particular 
matter involving a specific party or parties in which the United States, 
an agency thereof, or a Federal Reserve Bank is also a party or has a 
direct and substantial interest, and which matter was in process during 
his tenure of office or period of employment and under his official Board 
responsibility, at any time within a period of one year after the 
termination of such responsibility. 
(c) Consultation as to propriety of appearance before the Board. 
Any former member or employee of the Board who wishes to personally appear 
before the Board or a Federal Reserve Bank on behalf of any party other 
than the United States or an agency thereof or a Federal Reserve Bank at 
any time within two years from termination of employment with the Board 
is advised to consult the General Counsel or the Secretary of the Board 
as to the propriety of such appearance. 
(d) Rulemaking proceedings. Nothing in this section shall pre-
clude a former member or employee of the Board from representing another 
Person in any Board or Federal Reserve Bank proceeding governed by a rule, 
regulation, standard, or policy of the Board solely by reason of the fact 
that such former member or employee participated in or had official 
responsibility in the formation or adoption of such rule, regulation, 
standard, or policy. 
(e) Effective date.This Part shall become effective November 6, 1973. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the limitations of this Part shall not apply 

4353 
-5-
to any activities with respect to a specific matter before the Beard 
in which any former Board member or employee may be engaged on 
September 21, 1973, the date of publication of this Part, until the 
expiration of 60 days following the effective date of this Part or of 
such additional period as the Secretary of the Board may determine to 
be appropriate in order to avoid inequity. 
SECTION 266.4 - SUSPENSION OF APPEARANCE PRIVILEGE 
If any person knowingly and willfully fails to comply with the 
provisions of this Part, the Board may decline to permit such person to 
appear personally before it or a Federal Reserve Bank for such periods 
I 
of time as it may determine and may impose such other sanctions as the 
Board may deem just and proper. 
SECTION 266.5 - CRIMINAL PENALTIES 
Any former member or employee of the Board who engages in 
actions in contravention of paragraphs (a) or (b) of section 266.3 may 
be subject to criminal penalties for violation of section 207 of the 
United States Criminal Code (18 U0SoCe § 207). 
it 
•k 
* 
" 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 6, 1973. 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
V b h A L> 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
t o J ' 
.vToV'co,-/.. 
O F T H E 
Item No. 6 
feM'. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 1 / 6 / 7 3 
p ' j - ' y - ' ' 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
AoowEtis orrictAt. cnRRtsntiNucNCE 
^^^y 
TO THC HOARD 
November 6, 1973 
Trustees, Estate of Alfred I. duPont 
803 Florida National Bank Building 
P. 0. Box 1380 
Jacksonville, Florida 
Attention: Mr. Edward Ball 
Dear Mr. Ball: 
This responds to your letter of October 19, 1973, relating 
to the Board's determination and Order for Divestiture of Control of 
Florida National Banks of Florida, Inc. ("Order") dated October 15, 
1973. You request that the Trust be granted one hundred twenty (120) 
days within which to subnit to-the Board of Governors a specific plan 
for divestiture of the stock of Florida National Banks of Florida, in 
lieu of the sixty (60) day period specified in the Board's Order. As 
reason for your request,'you state that the trustees of the duPont Estate 
reside in four different cities and engage in various business activities 
in addition to their trustee responsibilities and, therefore, are limited 
in their ability to meet and prepare a response to the Board's divestiture 
Order. 
A divestiture of the duPont Trust's interest in Florida 
National Banks of Florida and the submission of a plan, at the earliest 
practicable date, to effect such divestiture are matters of concern to 
the Board. In the light of all the circumstances relevant to this 
matter, approval of the requested extension to one hundred twenty days 
is deemed unwarranted at this time. Accordingly, the request is denied. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
