MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 17, 1973 

oiy i S 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 17, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bueher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary-
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Other supporting staff 
The staff presented a review of domestic and international 
developments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings 
o f the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical 
materials prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, 
along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed legislative developments of interest 
t o the System. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
A/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3 G X f) 
9/17/73 
-2-
Emergency lending. At a number of its meetings during the 
preceding weeks, the Board had given consideration to possible 
extensions of Federal Reserve credit to thrift institutions in order 
to alleviate cases of extreme illiquidity during the current period 
of monetary restraint. Such action is permitted under section 13, 
Paragraph 3, of the Federal Reserve Act in unusual and exigent circum-
stances if authorized by a vote of not less than five Board members. 
At its meeting on September 6, 1973, the Board approved in principle 
Plans for emergency lending to the savings and loan industry and to 
other depositary institutions, but did not determine at that time 
that unusual and exigent circumstances then existed. 
Today's discussion resulted in a consensus that although 
unusual and exigent circumstances had not yet developed in the thrift 
mdustry, implementation of the lending procedures under paragraph 3 
section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act should not be delayed if such 
circumstances were to develop during the next two weeks, when fewer 
than five Board members were expected to be available at the Board. 
The Board discussed the possibility of arranging a telephone conference 
me^ting to take action on this particular matter in the event action 
was necessary during the ensuing two-week period. It was understood 
fchat the Secretary's Office would prepare a draft minute entry reflecting 
action that might be taken by the Board to authorize such a telephone 
inference meeting for consideration at tomorrow's Board meeting. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Mr. Melnicoff. 

3620 
9/17/73 
-3-
Chairman Burns referred to and commented on a recent article 
in the New York Times regarding the Federal Reserve's conduct of 
monetary policy during recent years. A discussion followed during 
which the nature of the Board's communications with the academic 
community and with business economists was explored. There was 
general agreement that the position of the Federal Reserve on current 
issues had not been presented in sufficient depth, and a number of 
suggestions were put forth that sought to remedy this shortcoming. 
Governors Bucher and Holland were designated a committee of two 
t o explore opportunities for making the Board's position better known. 
The Chairman suggested that the committee discuss the matter further 
with other Board members individually and with him. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
