MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 4, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act entries covering the items in this set of 
minutes commencing on the pages and dealing with the subjects 
referred to below: 
Page 3 Amendment to Regulation Q, Interest on 
Deposits. 
Page 4 Amendment to Regulation T, Credit by 
Brokers and Dealers. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 4, 19 73. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 2/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Managing Director for Operations and 
Supervision 
Mr. Gramley, Deputy Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Henry, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
1/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
2/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

4724 
12/4/73 
-2-
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a letter to 
the Federal Reserve Banks clarifying their authority under the Board's 
Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority to approve certain bank holding 
company applications for the acquisition of a one-bank holding company. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mercantile 
Bancorporation Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of Rozier 
Bank, Ste. Genevieve, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Charter New York 
Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of the successor by 
merger to The First National Bank of Hancock, Hancock, New York. Simul-
taneously with the merger, the succeeding bank would acquire certain 
assets and assume certain liabilities of The First National Bank of 
Hamden, Hamden, New York. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Manufacturers 
Hanover Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of (1) Manufac-
turers Hanover Overseas Capital Corporation, New York, New York, and (2) 
Manufacturers Hanover Leasing (Nassau) Ltd., Nassau, Bahamas. Copies of 
the letters sent to the applicant are attached as Items 4 and 5. 

12/4/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Fidelity 
International Bank, New York, New York, to acquire shares of B.I.F. 
Administracao e Servicos S.C. Ltda., Sao Paulo, Brazil. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
Congressional testimony. Chairman Burns was scheduled to appear 
on December 5, 1973, before the Subcommittee on International Finance of 
the House Banking and Currency Committee to discuss recent developments 
in foreign exchange markets and in the balance of payments. A draft 
statement had been distributed, and today's discussion of the draft 
included a number of suggestions regarding approach and emphasis. At 
the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that the statement 
would be revised in the light of comments made and would be presented 
in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. A copy of the statement 
as presented before the Subcommittee has been placed in the Board's files. 
NOW accounts. Pursuant to its recent discussions concerning 
regulation of interest-bearing accounts subject to negotiable orders 
of withdrawal (NOW accounts) in Massachusetts and New Hampshire, the 
Board today considered further a proposed amendment to Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits. Documentation before the Board included drafts 
of a press release, a Federal Register notice, and a letter to certain 
members of Congress. 

4726 
12/4/73 
-4-
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the amendment, 
effective January 1, 19 74, as well as the press release and letter, 
both with changes in wording. Copies of these documents are attached 
under Item No. 7. It was understood that the staff would prepare an 
estimate of the costs involved in the collection of NOW account data 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston from all financial institutions 
in the two States offering such accounts. 
Amendment of Regulation T. In a memorandum of November 29, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation (1) recommended approval 
of an amendment to Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, in 
essentially the same form as published for comment in July 1973, and 
(2) submitted for Board consideration a draft letter to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission regarding the amendment. The proposed amendment 
would bring certain types of investment contracts, which include in one 
package both property ownership and provision for services, such as 
cattle feeding or rental management, under the provisions of Regulation T 
that relate to collateral for securities purchased on credit. 
After discussion, the Board approved, Chairman Burns abstaining, 
the amendment, with changes in wording, effective June 21, 1974, and 
the letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 8. Copies of the press release and 
Federal Register notice regarding the amendment are attached as Item No. 9. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting during discussion of 
the preceding subject. 

4727 
12/4/73 
-5-
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, 
Allison, and Melnicoff. 
Board meetings schedule. In a memorandum of November 30, 1973, 
Chairman Burns suggested that, in the interest of facilitating better 
attendance at Board meetings, consideration be given to scheduling 
regular meetings on days other than Tuesdays and Thursdays. His preference 
was to schedule regular Board meetings on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, 
with Fridays reserved primarily for the weekly economic and financial 
briefing and attendant discussions of monetary policy. 
After discussion, it was agreed to adopt the regular Board 
meeting schedule suggested by Chairman Burns, beginning the first week 
in February 19 74. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Oi 
WM 
... 
47k!S 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
nr THE- 
12/4/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 
20551 
BH032 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRftCBHONOf.NCE! 
TD THE flOAWD 
December 5, 1973 
TO THE OFFICERS IN CHARGE OF EXAMINATION, LEGAL AND 
RESEARCH DEPARTMENTS AT ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
The Board recently considered whether § 265.2(f)(24) 
of the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority, relating 
to the Authority of Reserve Banks to approve certain applications 
under section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act, includes 
also the authority to approve the acquisition of a one-bank holding 
company that owns 100 per cent (less director's qualifying shares) 
of the shares of the bank involved, owns no other shares of any 
company, has no nonbanking interests and is engaged only in owning 
and managing tne bank involved. The Board concluded that such 
authority is encompassed within the delegation of authority to 
Reserve Banks; and an application of the type described may be 
processed at the Reserve Bank level, provided that all other 
conditions specified in the Regulation are met. 
If you have any questions concerning whether a particular 
application is covered under the circumstances described in this 
letter, you may contact Mr. Mannion in the Board's Legal Division. 
William W. Wiles 
Deputy Program Director 
for Banking Structure 

4729 
Item No. 2 
12/4/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MERCANTILE BANCORPORAtlOtt INC. 
Ordet approving acquisition of Bank 
Mercantile Bancorporation Inc., St. Louis, Missouri 
("Applicant"), a bank holding company within the meaning of the 
Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval 
under section 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 
at least 90 per cent of the voting shares, plus directors' 
qualifying shares, of Rozier Bank, Ste. Genevieve, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with section 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and none have been received. 
The application has been considered in light of factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Missouri, 
controls twelve subsidiary banksU with aggregate deposits of 
$1.2 billion, representing 9.1 per cent of total commercial bank 
deposits in the State.2/ Acquisition of Bank, with $6.5 million 
in deposits, would increase Applicant's share of commercial bank 
deposits in the State by only .05 of a percentage point and would 
not result in any significant increase in the concentration of 
banking resources in Missouri. 
1/ Includes four approved bank acquisitions not yet consummated. 
In addition,Applicant received approval to acquire a de novo bank 
on July 12/l973. 
V All banking data are as of June 30, 1973, adjusted to reflect bank 
holding company acquisitions and formations approved through ..." 
October 18, 1973. 

- 2 -
4730 
Bdnk is the third largest of four banks operating in its 
market area (which is approximated by Ste. Genevieve County), with 
20 per cent of the total deposits in that area. There is no 
significant competition between Bank and any of Applicant's sub-
sidiaries. Applicant's subsidiary closest to Bank — the United 
Bank of Farmington ~ is 28 miles southwest of Ste. Genevieve and 
in a different market area. Moreover, it appears unlikely that 
such competition would develop in the future in the light of the 
facts of record, notably, the distances separating Bank from 
Applicant's present subsidiary banks, the presence of banking 
alternatives in the intervening areas, and Missouri's prohibition 
against branch banking. On the basis of the record before it, 
the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant 
area. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant, its present subsidiaries and Bank are all regarded as 
satisfactory and consistent with approval. Although there is no 
evidence that demands for banking services are not being met in 
the market, neither of the Ste. Genevieve banks has trust powers. 
Applicant,therefore, intends to make trust services available to 
Bank customers through trust departments of affiliate banks. 
Applicant also intends to make an insured mobile home financing 
Plan available through Bank. Furthermore, advice on Bank's investments 

4731 
-3-
will be provided by Applicant. Considerations relating to convenience 
and needs are, therefore, consistent with approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition is in the 
public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not 
be made 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order, or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,3/ effective December 4, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
and Governor Holland. 

_ 4732 
Item No. 3 
12/4/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger .("New Bank") to The First National 
Bank of Hancock, Hancock, New York ("Bank"). New Bank (which will assume 
the title of Bank), simultaneously with its merger with Bank, will pur-
chase all the assets, other than certain specified assets, and assume all 
deposit liabilities and certain other specified liabilities of The First 
National Bank of Hamden, Hamden, New York ("Hamden Bank").^ Accord-
in8ly, the proposed acquisition is treated herein as the acquisition by 
APPlicant of New Bank as it would be constituted after both the merger 
of Bank and the acquisition of the assets and assumption of the liabilities 
Hamden Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
li k 
8 t of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
T/ fr 
^mden e* a C q U i S i t : i 0 n ° f t H e a s s e t s a n d assumption of the liabilities of 
SukJe t- 
k b y N e W B a n k > a S W e l 1 a s t h e m e r 8 e r of Bank into New Bank, is-
8 
t Q t h e s c p a r a t e approval of the Comptroller of the Currency under 
' o f the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)). 

4733 
-2-
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in New York, 
controls 14 subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $5.2 billion, 
representing 4.66 per cent of the total commercial banking deposits in 
y 
the State. 
Upon acquisition of New Bank (which would have deposits of 
$12.8 million, representing the combined deposits of Bank and Hamden 
Bank), Applicant would not increase its present ranking among bank 
holding companies in the State, nor significantly increase its share of 
State deposits. 
New Bank will operate in the Sidney market, which consists of 
western Delaware County and small parts of Chenango and Otsego Counties. 
Six banking organizations presently operate in the market, and the 
largest, a locally-based holding company controlling two banks, accounts 
43.7 per cent of total market deposits. New Bank, with the combined 
deposits of Bank and Hamden Bank, would control 18.4 per cent of total 
market deposits, and would be the third largest of the five remaining 
banking organizations in the market."" 
Applicant's subsidiary bank closest to Bank and Hamden Bank 
haa an office in Binghamton, which is 43 miles from Bank and 60 miles 
frotn Hamden Bank, and no meaningful present competition exists between any 
fq7
 U n l e s s otherwise indicated, all banking data are as of December 31, 
and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board through October 31, 1973. 
J 
Bank, a unit bank with deposits of $8.7 million, is the fourth largest 
o f six banking organizations in the Sidney market and controls 12.1 per 
of the deposits in that market. Hamden Bank, a unit bank with de-
Posits of $4.1 million, is the fifth largest bnnking orgnni^.ation in the 
Market, with 6.3 per cent of market deposits. 

4734 
-3-
°f Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank or Hamden Bank. Moreover, in view 
of the distances involved, there appears to be little likelihood of the 
development of any significant amount of future competition between these 
institutions. In view of the low population growth and per capita income 
of the Sidney market, it does not appear likely that Applicant would seek 
to enter the market either de novo or through a branch of an existing 
banking subsidiary. Accordingly, consummation of the proposed acquisi-
tion of New Bank will not have an adverse effect on existing or potential 
competition. 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and future 
Prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are generally satis-
factory and consistent with approval. And, although Hamden Bank is in poor 
financial condition, New Bank will be in satisfactory financial con-
dition, with adequate capital and good management, and its prospects as 
a S u b s i diary of Applicant appear good. Considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served also lend weight 
toward approval of the application; in particular, consummation of the 
P r ° p o s a l w i l 1 assure, at least temporarily, the continuation of banking 
services in the town of Hamden, which in turn may serve to slow the 
economic decline of the community. 
It is the Board1 s judgment that consummation of this proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and should be approved. 

4735 
-4-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order, or 
(b) later than three months after the date, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 4, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
rimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Holland. 

4736 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
12/4/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1973 
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation 
350 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 27, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 4(c) (13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for Manfacturers 
Hanover Corporation to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, 
all of the shares of Manfacturers Hanover Overseas Capital 
Corporation ("MHOCC"), New York, New York, at a cost of approximately 
$10 ,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under 
Section 4(c) (13), MHOCC shall confine its activities to international 
or foreign banking and other international or foreign financial 
operations. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that MHOCC will have 
no ceiling of its own under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program and 
the foregoing approval is given on condition that any foreign 
investments of the Corporation will be made within the Guidelines as 
they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

.•gofcoC^ 
BDARD DF GDVERNDR5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
12/4/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1973 
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation 
350 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 27, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 4(c) (13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for Manufacturers 
Hanover Corporation to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, 
all of the shares of Manufacturers Hanover Leasing (Nassau) Ltd. 
("MH Nassau") at a cost of approximately Bah.$1,000 (about $1,030) 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Section 
4(c) (13), MH Nassau shall confine its activities to international 
or foreign banking and other international or foreign financial 
operations. 
The Board has noted that as of September 30, 1973 
the foreign loans and investments of Manufacturers Hanover Trust 
Company exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program. The foregoing consent is 
granted with the understanding that those foreign loans and invest-
ments will be reduced promptly so as to eliminate any excess over 
the guideline ceiling and on condition that the investment will be 
made only when there is adequate leeway under the guideline 
ceiling. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
4738 
D F T H E 
Item No. 6 . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/4/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
A R R I C I A L 
D O R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1973 
Fidelity International Bank 
120 Broadway 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 10, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FIB") 
to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all the interest 
in B.I.F. Administracao e Servicos S. C. Ltda. ("Limitada"), 
Sao Paulo, Brazil, at a cost of approximately $70,000, 
provided this interest is acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and 
holding of shares of Limitada by FIB is granted subject to the 
following conditions: 
(1) That FIB shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Limitada if Limitada at 
any time fails to restrict its activities to 
those permissible to a corporation in which a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the 
consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if Limitada establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or 
undertakes any operation in Brazil or 
elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to FIB; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
FIB will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of Limitada as it 
may require from time to time; and 
P
i 
•f^LR^V 

4739 
Fidelity International Bank 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Limitada be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Limitada 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by Limitada in Brazil in the 
currency of that country. 
In connection with this consent, approval for Limitada to 
engage in the business of providing consulting services outside the 
United States is granted subject to the condition that such services 
relating to the U.S. market will be confined to the initial entry of 
foreign companies into that market. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The Fidelity Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

4740 
.• vv'• •. 
Item No. 7 
4 . - 0 \ C o
V
/
: B O A R D 
OF D D V E R N D R 5 
1 0 /,/-,<•> 
nrtHE 
12/4/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
, 
„ „ „ . „ 
(ifORDE W. MITCHELL 
•y<*u<tf;.- 
December 7, 1973 
VICC CHAIRMAN 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing 
and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board is releasing today an amendment to its regulations 
authorizing member banks to offer NOW accounts. The amendment, which will 
take effect January 1, applies to member banks in Massachusetts and New 
Hampshire. 
It fixes a ceiling of 5 per cent on interest on the new 
accounts, limits them to depositors who are eligible to have savings 
accounts, limits the number of transfers per NOW account to 150 a year, 
and limits solicitation of NOW accounts to the two States. 
The Board has predicated its actions on the belief that the basic 
Purpose of the NOW account experiment is to make money transfers a feature 
of savings accounts owned by individuals. The primary, but not exclusive, 
beneficiaries of this policy would be those who do not have checking 
accounts but keep their funds in a savings account in a commercial bank, a 
mutual savings bank, a savings and loan association or other thrift insti-
tution. The Board does not believe that NOW accounts should be made so 
available and attractive as to result in the wholesale conversion of 
demand deposits into such accounts. 
In formulating its rules» the Board lias given close attention to 
comment it received on its tentative proposals published September 14, just 
before the new legislation went into effect. The Board has considered the 
views of the other Federal regulatory agencies concerned, and of the bank-
ing officials in the two States in which Congress authorized the experiment 
in making check-like withdrawals from interest-bearing deposits. 
The Board has also sought to be guided by the legislative history 
PL 93-100 permitting NOV,7 transfers from savings accounts. 
This legisla-
tive history indicates that the NOV/ account experiment was meant by 
Congress to be confined to Massachusetts and New Hampshire. 
Consequently, 
the Board is requesting member banks in Massachusetts and New Hampshire to 
limit the ownership of NOW accounts to permanent or temporary residents of 
those States, to persons who work in the two States and to current customers. 

4 7 U 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
Similarly, the Board has limited direct solicitation of NOW account deposits 
by member banks to the two States concerned. 
The legislative history also implies that eligible holders should 
be limited to natural persons. Savings accounts at commercial banks are 
limited to individuals, to fiduciary accounts for the benefit of individuals, 
and to certain non-profit associations. The Board has concluded that con-
fining the use of MOW accounts at member banks to those who have savings 
accounts at those banks carries out the intent of Congress. The Board does 
not believe that Congress intended for corporations and State and local 
governments to have access to NOW accounts, and it sees no present reason 
for permitting such access. 
The Board believes that all depository institutions offering this 
service should be permitted to pay the same rates of interest on the deposits 
supporting NOW accounts. 
In its publication of September 14 soliciting comment: on tenta-
tive proposals for the use of NOW accounts, the Board implied concern over 
the possibility that NOW accounts might be offered as a loss leader for 
attracting deposits. 
In the interest of maintaining sound banking, insti-
tutions in these two States should avoid predatory competition implicit in 
loss leader promotion. 
The Board suggests that fees should be charged where the costs 
of maintaining and servicing NOW accounts, including the interest paid to 
the holder of the account, are not fully covered by the bank's earnings on 
the deposits supporting the account. One reason for this concern is the 
fact that savings accounts at all the depository institutions in Massa-
chusetts and New Hampshire arc small on the average—less than $250—and 
that the large majority of all savings accounts in the two States is under 
$1,000. Thus, a bank's opportunities for earnings on such accounts are 
limited. When one keeps in mind the interest paid to holders of such 
accounts, the costs of setting up accounts and the servicing of transactions, 
it is clear that unless fees are charged for NOW transfers many, if not 
most, such accounts would be operated at a loss to the institution offering 
them. This would tend to undermine the viability of the experiment by 
undermining the earning capacity and ultimately the soundness of institu-
tions caught in a competitive bind. The Board is reluctant to deal with 
this possibility by fixing the money equivalent of the costs of handling 
a funds transfer in a NOW account, since this will vary from institution to 
institution or customer to customer, or even from transaction to trans-
action. The best solution, therefore, appears to be for an individual bank 
to charge fees in the light of its own knowledge of the relation of its 
costs to its earnings on NOW accounts. 

4742 
The Honorable John Sparkraan 
-3-
The NOW account may become the vehicle for wholesale conversion 
of checking accounts to NOW accounts unless some limitation is imposed upon 
the use of NOW transfers. The Board has therefore set a twelve month limit 
of 150 such transfers per account. The NOW account should be of particular 
benefit to that segment of the public that does not maintain checking 
accounts, and, therefore, does not make large numbers of payments in some 
form other than currency. The limit of 150 transfers per year, consequently, 
seems appropriate at the outset to serve that segment of the public that the 
Board expects will derive the primary benefit from the NOW account. 
A copy of the Board's statement announcing the new rules is 
enclosed. We believe that within these guidelines, the NOW account experi-
ment can proceed under conditions that are fair to savers as well as to 
other members of the public who rely on a sound banking system. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) George W. Mitchell 
George W. Mitchell 

For Immediate Release 
December 7, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today issued 
an amendment to its Regulation Q -- governing payment of interest on deposits --
under which customers of member banks in Massachusetts and New Hampshire may 
write negotiable orders of withdrawal (IIOUs) against interest-bearing savings 
accounts. 
The amendment, effective January 1, 1974. was adopted pursuant to 
new legislation permitting all depository institutions in the two states to 
Allow customers to write IIOUs -- which function as checks -- on savings 
accounts. The customary type of check may be written only against non-
Interest, -paying demand deposits. 
The new rules for the use of NOWs by savings depositors in 
Federal Reserve member banks in Massachusetts and Hew Hampshire are: 
— Maximum interest payable on NCW accounts is 5 per cent. 
-- HOW accounts may be owned only by natural persons (or 
fiduciary accounts for individuals) and non-profit 
associations eligible to maintain savings accounts. 
To avoid unfair competition for deposits with institu-
tions iri neighboring states, advertising and solicitation 
of NOW account deposits should be directed toward resi-
dents of Massachusetts and Mew Hampshire. In this con-
nection, member banks are requested to offer HOW accounts 
only co permanent or temporary residents of Massachusetts 
and New Hampshire, persons who work in those states, 
and current customers. 
-- The number of negotiable orders of withdrawal that may be 
processed against an individual HOW account may not exceed 
Hi0 per year. 
The Board's rules governing the use of NOWs in the two states 
were formulated following careful consideration of the history of the 

4744 
- 2 
legislation and of all comment received on a tentative statement of proposed 
Policies issued by the Board on September 14. The Board also con-
sulted vith the other Federal regulatory agencies through the Inter-Agency 
Coordinating Committee, The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board are also issuing regulations covering institu-
tions under their jurisdiction in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. 
The new rules do not require the imposition of service charges by 
member banks on NCI-J transactions. But the Board suggested that each in-
dividual bank charge a fee for transactions if its earnings from NOW 
accounts do not fully cover the cost of establishing and servicing such account 
NOW drafts will continue to be cleared, for all depository-
institutions , by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston through member banks. 
Xn cooperation with the other regulatory agencies, the Board --
through the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston --is establishing a system for 
monitoring, on a monthly basis, the use and activity in NOW accounts. The 
Purpose is to generate timely information on public use and acceptance of 
such accounts and to uncover any institutional weaknesses that may arise 
from excessive promotional schemes and activities. 
The Board has written the chairmen and ranking minority members 
°f the committees and subcommittees that considered the recent NOW account 
*eCislation, to inform them of the reasons underlying the Board's action, 
following are excerpts from those letters: 
The Board has predicated its actions on the 
belief that the basic purpose of the KOW account 
experiment is to make money transfers a feature 
of savings accounts owned by individuals. Hie 
primary, but not exclusive, beneficiaries of this 
policy would be those who do not have checking ac-
counts but keep their funds in a savings account 

.. 4 7 1 5 
- 3 
in a commercial bank* a mutual savings bank* a savings 
and loan association cr other thrift institution. The 
board does not believe that MOW accounts should be 
made so available and attractive as to result in the 
wholesale conversion of demand deposits into such 
accounts. 
In formulating its rules, the Board has given 
close attention to comment it received on its ten-
tative proposals published September 14, just before 
the new legislation went into effect. The Board has 
considered the views of the other Federal regulatory 
agencies concerned, and of the banking officials in 
the two states in which Congress authorized the 
experiment in making check-like withdrawals from 
interest-bearing deposits. 
The Board has also sought to be guided by the 
legislative history of PL 93-100 permitting MOW 
transfers from savings accounts. This legislative 
history indicates that the NOW account experiment 
was meant by Congress to be confined to Massachusetts 
and New Hampshire. Consequently, the Board is requesting 
member banks in Massachusetts and Mew Hampshire to limit 
the ownership of U0W accounts to permanent or temporary 
residents of those states, to persons who work in the 
two states and to current customers. Similarly, the 
Board has limited direct solicitation of KOW account 
deposits by member banks to the two states concerned. 
The legislative history also implies that 
eligible holders should be limited to natural persons. 
Savings accounts at commercial banks are limited to 
individuals, to fiduciary accounts for the benefit 
of individuals, and to certain non-profit associations. 
Hie Board has concluded that confining the use of 
KOW accounts at member banks to those who have savings 
accounts at those banks carries out the intent of 
Congress. The Board does not believe that Congress 
intended for corporations and state and local govern-
ments to have access to MOW accounts, and it sees no 
present reason for permitting such access. 
The Board believes that all depository institutions 
offering this service should bo permitted to pay-the same 
rates of interest on the deposits supporting.HOW accounts. 
In its publication of September 14 soliciting 
comment on tentative proposals for the use of NOW 
accounts, the Board implied concern over the pos-
sibility that NOW accounts might be offered as a 

4746 
- 4 -
loss leader for attracting deposits. In the interest 
of maintaining sound banking, institutions in these 
two states should avoid predatory competition implicit 
in loss leader promotion. 
The Board suggests that fees should be charged 
where the costs of maintaining and servicing NOW 
accounts, including the interest paid to the holder 
of the account, are not fully covered by the bank's 
earnings on the deposits supporting the account. One 
reason for this concern is the fact: that savings 
accounts at all the depository institutions in Massa-
chusetts and Mew Hampshire are small on the average --
less than $250 
and that the large majority of all 
savings accounts in the two states is under $1,000. 
Thus, a bank's opportunities for earnings on such 
accounts arc limited. When one keeps in mind the interest 
paid to holders of such accounts, the costs of setting 
up accounts and the servicing of transactions, it is 
clear that unless fees arc charged for MOW transfers 
many, if not most, such accounts would be operated at 
a loss to the institution offering them. This would 
tend to undermine the viability of the experiment by 
undermining the earning capacity and ultimately the 
soundness cf institutions caught in a competitive bind. 
The Board is reluctant to deal with this possibility 
by fixing the money equivalent of the costs of handling 
a funds transfer in a MOW account, since this will 
vary from institution to institution or customer to 
customer, or even from transaction to transaction. 
The best solution, therefore, appears to be for an 
individual bank to charge fees in the light of its own 
knowledge of the relation of its costs to its earnings 
on MOW accounts. 
The NOW account may become the vehicle for wholesale 
conversion of checking accounts to MOW accounts unless 
some limitation is imposed upon the use of MOW trans-
fers, The Board has therefore set a twelve month limit 
of 150 such transfers per account. The NOW account-
should be of particular benefit to that segment of the 
public that does not maintain checking accounts, and, 
therefore, docs not make large numbers of payments in 
some form other than currency. 'Hie limit of 150 trans-
fers per year, consequently, seems appropriate at the 
outset to serve that segment of the public that the Board 
expccts will derive the primary benefit from the MOW account. 
-,V 
-.V 
-k 
'A* 
A copy of the Board's order in this matter is attached. 
- 0 ~ 

4747 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[REG. Q] 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Negotiable Orders of Withdrawal 
On September 14, 1973, the Board of Governors invited public 
comment on a Statement of Proposed Policies to regulate the use of 
interest-bearing accounts from which a depositor is allowed to make trans-
fers of funds by negotiable orders of withdrawal (NOWs) . Section 2(a) of 
P,L. 93-100 permits NOWs to be made only in the States of Massachusetts 
and New Hampshire. After consideration of all comments received and after 
consulting with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board and the Comptroller of the. Currency, the Board has 
amended its Regulation Q so as to prescribe rule;, governing the use of 
NOWs within Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Pursuant to P.L. 93-100 
and the Board's authority under section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to 
prescribe rules governing the payment of interest on deposits, the amend-
ment: treats deposits on which NOWs may be drawn as savings deposits and 
thereby limits use of NOWs to individuals and certain non-profit organizations. 
The maximum rate of interest that may be paid on NOW accounts is 5 per cent, 
the maximum rate currently prescribed for savings deposits in member banks. 
The amendment limits the number of NOWs that may be accepted 
by a member bank from a customer to 150 per year. In addition, consistent 

. 4748 
with the Congressional .Intention that the use of NOWo be confined to 
the States of Massachusetts and New Hampshire, the Board has amended 
the advertising provisions of Regulation Q to restrict the advertise-
ment, announcement and solicitation of NOW.s by member banks to media 
directed toward residents of Massachusetts and New Hampshire. The Board's 
intention in imposing these advertising limitations is to confine the use 
of NOWs to persons residing or employed in those two states and to current 
customers of member banks in those states. 
The effective date of these amendments was deferred for less 
than the 30-day period referred to in Title 5, United States Code, section 
553(d), because the Board found that the public interest compelled it to 
make the action effective no later than the date adopted. See 5 262.2(e) 
of the Board's Rules of Procedure (.12 CFP. 762.2(e)). 
Effective January 1, 1974, the Board's Regulation Q (12 CFR 217) 
is amended in the following respects: 
1. § 217.1 is amended by adding a new subparagraph (3) to para-
graph (e) of that section to read as follows: 
§ 217.1 Definitions. 
* 
ft 
* 
* 
* 
(e) Savlrn>s Depcj-iits. 
ft 
ft 
»'; 
ft 
* 
(3) In those states where banks are permitted to offer deposits 
subject to negotiable orders of withdrawal, such deposits may be maintained 

47-19 
only by individuals and organizations permitted to maintain savings 
deposits under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph. 
2. § 217.5 is amended by amending paragraph (c) of that section 
to read as follows: 
§ 217 .5 Witli d rawaj^^ 
« 
ft 
* 
* 
* 
(c) .Manner of payment, of saylnfis_Jej^sj^. 
(1) Subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (2) and (3) of 
this paragraph, * 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
>'< 
* 
(3) The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to de-
posits subject to negotiable orders of withdrawal authorised by Federal 
law to be issued in the states of Massachusetts and Mew Hampshire which 
shall be subject to the limitation that no member bank may accept more 
than 150 negotiable orders of withdrawal during any calendar year on any 
deposit subject to such orders. 
(/,) Where a savings deposit is evidenced by a passbook, every 
withdrawal made upon presentation of the passbook shall be entered in the 
passbook at the time of withdrawal, and every other withdrawal from such a 
deposit shall be entered in the passbook as soon as practicable after 
withdrawal is made. 
3. § 217.6 is amended by adding a new paragraph (i) to read as 
follows: 

.. 4750 
-4-
5 217.6 Advertising of interest on deposits. 
>* 
ft 
* 
* 
(i) Negotiable Orders of Withdrawal, in addition to compliance 
with the other paragraphs of this section, member banks offering accounts 
subject to negotiable orders of withdrawal, to the extent practicable, 
shall limit every advertisement, announcement or solicitation made in any 
newspaper, magazine, radio, television or other media to such facilities 
directed toward residents of New Hampshire and Massachusetts. All other 
advertisements, announcements and solicitations of such accounts, including 
direct mailing, circulars, and notices, whether written or oral, to the 
extent practicable, shall be directed only to persons residing or employed 
in New Hampshire and Massachusetts and tc persons who are customers of 
member banks in those states on the effective data of this amendment. 
4. § 217.7 is amended by amending paragraph (c) to read a& 
follows: 
§ 217 ,7 Maximum rate.3 of interest payable by member banks_on time and 
javin ^s deposits. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(c) Savings deposits. No member bank shall pay interest at 
a rate in excess of 5 per cent on any savings deposit including savings 
deposits that are subject to negotiable orders of withdrawal, the issuance 
of which is authorized by Federal law. 
By Order of the Board of Governors, effective January 1, 19/4. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B, Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

4751 
B D A R D 
OF 
G • V E R N • R 5 
o f t h e 
Item No 
r r n r P A l 
P F ^ r P V P 
^ Y R T F M 
12/4/73 
• f t h e 
Item No. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
[f-
I r r ^ S A t r i ' A Z ' 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
i\i*st 
*!uj • 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H T 
B O A R D 
December 5, 1973 
The Securities and Exchange Commission 
500 North Capital Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20549 
Gentlemen: 
, 
. x 
This is to advise you, in advance of the public announce-
ment, that the Board of Governors has decided to adopt an amendment 
to its Regulation T, "Credit by Brokers and Dealers" clarifying that 
credit in connection with any part of any sale of property with^ 
related management, rental or sales contracts which the Commission 
deems to be an "investment contract" (hence a "security" for purposes 
of the regulation) must be treated as credit on the entire security 
(12 C.F.R. 220.6(a)). 
Investment contracts of this kind have involved 
the sale, among other property, of cattle, citrus groves and resort 
condominiums. 
The effect of the amendment will be to forbid 
broker/dealers to sell investment contracts having a credit feature 
unless the credit is collateralized in conformity with the require-
ments of Regulation T. 
In order to avoid undue hardship to issuers, the amendment 
will not become effective until June 21, 1974, approximately six 
months after the anticipated date of publication in the Federal 
vRegister. 
The Board would plan to announce adoption of the proposed 
amendment on Friday, December 15, 1973. 
The proposal was made public for comment on July 5, 1973. 
On September 10, 1973, the Board announced that in view of the re-
quests for extension of the comment period that had been received 
and because the matter was then under consideration by the Commission, 
it was extending the time for comment. 
The proposal would be adopted 
in substantially the form in which it was proposed. 
While the Commission has not commented formally on the pro-
posal, its staff advised Board staff that the Commission had instructed 
it to'explore the attitude of Board staff toward recommending to the 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
The Securities and Exchange Commission 
Board chat relief of some kind be provided for the sale of resort 
condominiums with related rental contracts. The two staffs met to 
discuss the matter on September 26, 1973, and have since had numer-
ous telephone contacts. 
It is the Board's understanding that effective relief from 
the impact of the Securities Acts could not be afforded without amend-
ment of rules promulgated by the .Commission. If the Commission is of 
the view that relief is warranted for certain kinds of investment con-
tracts, the Board would suggest that the two agencies establish a 
joint task force to explore relevant considerations, with instructions 
to report back on a recommendation within a reasonable time. The 
members of such a task force would be authorized to exchange freely 
all relevant information, including work papers, as they deem appro-
priate. 
Should the Commission determine that a task force should be 
established for this purpose, the Board would nominate Miss Janet 
Hart and Mr. James Kichline, and would suggest that a target date of 
April 1, 1974, be set for the report of a recommendation. 
The Board would also be pleased, of course, to receive any 
comments the Commission wished to make on the new section 220.6(1) of 
Regulation T, in advance of the public announcement. 
4752 
o 
- 
2 
-
Very truly yours, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

•^fSfS"^-' 
Item No. 9 
12/4/73 
For Immediate Release 
December 14, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today announced 
an amendment to its Regulation T -- extension of credit on securities by 
brokers or dealers -- withdrawing permission for brokers or dealers to sell 
certain kinds of investment contract securities on credit. 
The amendment, to become effective June 21, 1974, would provide 
uniform treatment of every security, for credit purposes, as an indivisible 
whole. The amendment was published for comment July 5, 1973, 
The amendment relates to, but is not limited to, the arrangement 
f o r credit by securities brokers or dealers in the sale of investment con-
tract securities such as a program to own and feed cattle, or to own and 
rent, through a related rental arrangement, a condominium unit. In general, 
^ is the combination, in one package, of both property ownership and 
Provision for services such as cattle feeding or rental management, that 
makes the product a "security" subject to securities credit regulation. 
The Board has held that, in most cases, securities brokers and 
dealers are not permitted, under Regulation T, to arrange credit for the 
Salo of such investment contract securities, but it had made an exception 
;;here the property sale and the management contract were separate items and 
fche credit involved is connected only with the property. 
The amendment negates that exception, and makes the extension of 
c*"edit on any part of such an investment an extension of credit on the whole, 
makes it impermissible for securities brokers and dealers to arrange 
such credit unless collateral is supplied meeting the requirements of the 
^°8ulation. Others may continue to sell such investment programs on credit. 
A copy of the Board's rule in this matter is attached. 

_ 4754 
TITLE i2--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A-BOAkD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Reg. T] 
PART 220--CREDIT BY BROKERS AMD DEALERS 
Credit in connection with investment contracts 
On page 10690 of the Federal Register of July 13, 1973, the 
Board of Governors proposed, pursuant to authority of Section 7 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g), to add paragraph (1) 
to 5 220.6 of Regulation T. Interested persons were given 28 days in 
which to submit written data, views, or arguments concerning the pro-
posal. On page 26009 of the Federal Register of September 17, 1973, 
such time for comment was extended to September 25, 1973. 
This amendment provides uniform treatment, for credit purposes, 
every security as an indivisible whole. 
This amendment negates previous Board interpretations which 
stated that broker/dealers would not be deemed to be arranging credit 
which they could not extend, as prohibited by § 220.7(a), when they 
sold investment contracts which included credit extended solely on the 
real estate or chattel part of the contract. The Board has stated its view 
that a broker/dealer who sells certain programs including an installment 
feature is arranging for the extension of credit to purchase the programs 
(12 CFR 5 120.124 (1973)). That is,the broker/dealer is regarded as 
having "arranged" credit by the act of selling an investment contract 
security including a credit feature. Regulation T would not apply, 
course, unless the subject of the sale were a security. 

4755 
-2-
Following consideration of all comments received, the amendment is 
hereby adopted as set forth below: 
SECTION 220.6 -- CERTAIN TECHNICAL DETAILS 
•k 
k 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(1) Credit related to Portion of a Security. Credit for the 
Purpose of purchasing or carrying any part of an investment contract security 
(for example, but not limited to, the cattle ownership portion of a program 
to own and feed cattle, or the condominium ownership part of a program to 
own and rent a unit through a rental pool or otherwise) shall be deemed to 
ke credit on the entire security. 
Effective date. This amendment shall become effective on 
June 21, 1974. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 4, 1973. 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
