MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 14, 19 73 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act entries covering the items in this set of 
minutes commencing on the pages and dealing with the subjects 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Cleveland, Chicago, and 
St. Louis. 
Page 6 Amendment to Regulation G, Securities 
Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, 
Brokers, or Dealers. 

. 3583 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, September 14, 19 73. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 12:00 noon. 
PRESENT: Mr. Bums, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Discount rates. On September 7, 1973, the Board had considered 
Motions by the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and 
Chicago to raise the rate on their loans to member banks under 
Sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act from 7-1/2 to 8 per cent. 
After discussing the pending increases, the Board had agreed to defer a 
decision in order to provide an opportunity to assess further develop-
ments in the monetary aggregates and the debt markets. Subsequently, 
° n September 13, the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleve-
land and St. Louis had also voted to increase the discount rate to 
Withdrew from afternoon session at point indicated in minutes. 

358 
9/14/73 
-2-
8 per cent and the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
had renewed their earlier action. All of these Banks had acted to 
establish correspondingly higher subsidiary rates on advances under 
other sections of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The staff reported that the latest data continued to suggest 
a weakening trend in the monetary aggregates. M^ had declined somewhat 
in August and for the September-October period both M^ and M^ were 
expected to be at the low end of their respective ranges of tolerance 
established at the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on 
August 21. On the other hand, the bank credit proxy was continuing 
t o expand at a relatively rapid pace. Market interest rates had risen 
111 recent days after posting substantial declines over the previous 
month, and in the staff's judgment the markets could react strongly 
t o any signal of further tightening in monetary policy following the 
B°ard's action of September 7 raising marginal reserve requirements 
011 large-denomination certificates of deposit. 
Chairman Burns said he did not favor a further restrictive 
m° V e at this time. In his view, the System's policy of monetary 
restraint could be overdone and additional tightening was not war-
ranted by the performance of the monetary aggregates or the state of 
economy. Moreover, the announcement of another restrictive action 
e°uld have highly adverse repercussions on financial markets, includ-
e s the availability and cost of funds in the residential mortgage 
market. 

3585 
9/14/73 
-3-
The other Board members present at this meeting agreed with 
the Chairman's position. They noted that an increase in the discount 
rate one week after the establishment of higher marginal reserve 
requirements might well foster an undue reaction in debt markets, since 
Market participants x^ere likely to misjudge the outlook for monetary 
Policy and interest rates in the present situation. The increase might 
also be interpreted as validating the higher prime rates that had just 
been announced by two large banks. The Board members took note of the 
substantial drop in member bank borrowings since mid-August. It was 
Su8gested that an argument could be made in favor of a further advance 
l n the discount rate to help dampen inflationary psychology, but on 
balance it was felt the reaction to a higher rate would be adverse. 
After further considerati-on, the Board voted unanimously to 
•^•Iga^prove the pending discount rate increases, with the understanding 
that a letter outlining the reasons for the Board's decision would be 
Ser*t to the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Chicago, and 
St* Louis. It was also understood that the substance of the letter, 
Wlthout identification of the Banks involved, would be communicated to 
the Presidents of the other Federal Reserve Banks. 
A copy of the letter sent to the four Federal Reserve Banks 
a n d a copy of the memorandum sent to the Presidents of the other 
Federal Reserve Banks, both dated September 14, 1973, are attached as 

3566 
9/14/73 
-4-
Other discount rates. The establishment xvithout change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on September 8 and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Richmond and Dallas on September 13, 1973, of the 
rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
Sent to those Banks. 
The following then joined the meeting: 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
Activities of former Board members and employees. In a memo-
randum of September 11, 19 73, Governor Holland referred to the atten-
tion given by Board and staff earlier this year to the possible 
adoption of regulations limiting activities of former employees and, 
l n some versions, of former Board members, in matters that might give 
rise to conflict of interest questions. The most recent draft of the 
regulations was attached to former Governor Robertson's memorandum 
dated August 2, 19 72. Governor Holland recommended that that draft be 
revised in certain respects, including the extension of its coverage 
t o former Board members, and that as thus revised it be published for 
comment. 
Discussion at today's meeting included expressions of the 
Vlews of several members of the staff regarding the equity of the 

3587 
9/14/73 
-5-
Proposed regulations. Comments were made on the applicability of the 
Provisions to various hypothetical situations, and on administrative 
feasibility and effectiveness. A number of suggestions were made for 
changes to accommodate the views expressed, and it was understood that 
a draft reflecting those revisions would be prepared for the Board's 
further consideration. 
The following then joined the meeting: 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Kudlinski, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ferrell, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
NOW accounts. At yesterday's meeting, the Board had completed 
a series of discussions developing proposed regulatory approaches to 
implement recent legislation permitting the use of negotiable orders 
o f withdrawal from interest-bearing deposits at financial institutions 
(NOW accounts) in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Governor Mitchell 
today reported on concluding consultations with the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, which 
shared regulatory authority with the Board in this area. A draft press 
release had been distributed, to accompany a statement tentatively 
aSreed upon yesterday regarding proposed policies with respect to NOW 
accounts. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved publication 
comment of the statement of proposed policies. The press release 

3588 
9/14/73 
-6-
was also approved unanimously. Copies of the release and statement 
are attached under Item No. 3. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:30 p.m., with Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, Bucher, 
and Holland present and the following staff members in attendance: 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hocter of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division 
Supervision and Regulation in a memorandum dated September 13, 1973, 
the Board unanimously approved an amendment to Regulation G, Securities 
Gredit by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers, to provide 
^at borrowers who obtain credit regularly from their companies (or 
related plan-lender organizations) to buy their companies' stock under 
Purchase or option plans may be allowed to get the stock as soon as 
tlle prescribed repayments have been made over the three-year period 

, 3 TJ 
9/14/73 
-7-
mentioned in the regulation. The amendment was made effective 30 
days following the date of its publication in the Federal Register. 
A copy of the amendment is attached as Item No. 4. 
The application of First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., Birmingham, 
Alab ama, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to First 
National Bank of Athens, Athens, Alabama, was approved, Governor 
Mitchell dissenting because of the use of a covenant not to compete. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order implementing this decision. 
A copy is attached under Item No. 5, along with a copy of Governor 
Mitchell's dissenting statement. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chemical 
International Banking Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire 
shares of Chemical and Howard de Walden Trust Limited, St. Peter 
P°rt, Guernsey, Channel Islands. A copy of the letter sent to the 
applicant is attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting. 
Mellon National Corporation. In a memorandum of August 24, 
^73, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
o f the application of Mellon National Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania, to acquire shares of Carruth Mortgage Corporation, New Orleans, 
Louisiana. The Division of Research and Statistics recommended denial. 
Two additional memoranda dated September 11, 19 73, from the 
division of Research and Statistics summarized the findings of studies 

3530 
9/14/73 
-8-
by the staff and the views of consultants regarding the economic impli-
cations of holding company acquisitions of the leading firms in the 
various nonbanking businesses that holding companies are permitted to 
enter, with special emphasis on the mortgage banking industry. The 
studies had been authorized by the Board on July 19, 1973. 
After discussion that included comments by Mr. Hocter of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, the application of Mellon National 
Corporation was approved, Governor Bucher dissenting on competitive 
grounds. It was understood that an implementing order would be drafted 
the Board's consideration. 
(Note: Subsequently, and before 
issuance of the implementing order was authorized on September 27, 
19 73, Governor Bucher changed his vote to approval. A copy of Governor 
fiucherfs memorandum in that regard is attached as Item No. 7. The 
°rder as issued reflected this change.) 
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation. On June 25, 1973, the Board 
^enied the application of Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, New York, 
New York, to acquire shares of Citizens Mortgage Company, Southfield, 
^ehigan. After petition by the applicant, the Board on August 31, 
^73, agreed to reconsider the application on the ground that the 
Petitioner had submitted significant information not previously con-
sidered. Further comments on the application were contained in memo-
rai*da dated September 11 from the Division of Research and Statistics 
September 12 from the Division of Supervision and Regulation. 

3591 
9/14/73 
-9-
After discussion at today's meeting, action was deferred. 
First International Bancshares. In a memorandum dated 
September 7, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and 
the Division of Research and Statistics recommended approval of the 
spplication of First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, 
to acquire shares of the successor by merger to First Hutchings-Sealy 
National Bank of Galveston, Galveston, Texas. In a memorandum of 
September 12 the Legal Division commented on the pattern of recently-
approved and pending proposed acquisitions of subsidiary banks by 
First International Bancshares. 
After discussion, action was deferred pending development of 
additional information by the staff. 
In a memorandum of September 7, 1973, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation and the Division of Research and Statistics 
recommended approval of the application of First International Banc-
shares to acquire shares of the successor by merger to The Citizens 
National Bank in Abilene, Abilene, Texas. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A 
c°Py is attached as Item No. 8. 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation. In a 
memorandum of July 16, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Recommended approval of the application of First National City Overseas 

3592 
9/14/73 
-10-
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, for permission to acquire 
shares of Citicorp Location (France) S.A., Paris, France, and for the 
latter to issue certain debt obligations. In connection with consider-
ation of other recent foreign banking applications by First National 
City Bank and its Edge corporation subsidiaries, a question had been 
raised whether the borrowings of the foreign subsidiaries of First 
National City Bank were reflected in the bank's consolidated financial 
statements. In a memorandum of September 7, 1973, the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation reported that the borrowings of foreign 
subsidiaries of First National City Bank are included on a fully 
c°nsolidated basis in financial reports. 
The application to acquire shares of Citicorp Location (France) 
was approved unanimously. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
l s attached as Item No. 9. 
Reporting consolidation requirements. In a memorandum dated 
SePtember 7, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation referred 
t o several recent approvals of acquisitions of foreign subsidiaries 
l n which the Board had imposed the condition that the subsidiaries be 
c°nsolidated in reports of condition. The object of the condition 
Was to insure that banks would not hide highly leveraged operations 
l n unconsolidated subsidiaries and that the reports of condition 
w°uld present an accurate picture of the extent to which a bank's 
capital was leveraged. For reasons stated in the memorandum, the 

*3*y a. 
9/14/73 
-11-
^ivision believed that nonconsolidation of foreign subsidiaries was 
n°t currently a problem, and recommended that the condition no longer 
be imposed. 
The Division's recommendation was approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

0* Cow* 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item NoL 1 
• F T H E 
r-r-r^r-^ a , r—i (— I ' r- I ) \ / CT" C V C T t T M 
9/14/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
HrT^;.-
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 14, 1973 
M r . Alfred H a y e s 
President 
federal Reserve B a n k of N e w Y o r k 
N e w York, N e w Y o r k 10045 
Dear M r . Hayes: 
T h e Board of Governors took action today to disapprove 
^ e pending increase in your Bank's discount rate from 7-1/2 to 
8 per cent which your board of directors voted to establish at 
£heir meeting on September 6. T h e Board reviewed a variety of 
considerations in reaching its decision, including the possible 
advantages that an increase might have in helping to d a m p e n 
inflationary expectations. T h e Board concluded, however, that 
a n increase in the discount rate so soon after its decision to 
*ai s e marginal reserve requirements might lead to a misreading 
o f the current posture and outlook for m o n e t a r y policy and have 
undesirable repercussions on financial markets. In the Board's 
judgment, a decision to maintain the current rate w a s reinforced 
b Y the recent evidence of moderation in the growth of the monetary 
Aggregates. 
While reaching a decision that differs from that of your 
directors, the Board appreciates having had the benefit of their 
considered judgment and has asked m e to convey their appreciation, 
Y o u r s sincerely, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
J 
or THE 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/14/73 
. u 5 9 » 5 
C o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
' 
Date_September 14, 1973 
^ ^ £ & I i l e s e r v e Bank Presidents") 
Subject: Board Discount Rate Action,, 
—--Normand Bernard 
f \ ] \ j ^ 
' 
on September 14, 1973 
S T R I C T L Y C O N F I D E N T I A L (FR) 
There follows the substance of a letter sent to four Federal 
Reserve Banks notifying them of the Board's action today to dis-
aPprove pending increases in their discount rates to 8 per cent: 
The Board reviewed a variety of consider-
ations in reaching its decision, including the 
possible advantages that an increase might have 
in helping to dampen inflationary expectations. 
The Board concluded, however, that an increase 
in the discount rate so soon after its decision to 
raise marginal reserve requirements might lead 
to a misreading of the current posture and out-
look for monetary policy and have undesirable 
repercussions on financial markets. In the 
Board's judgment, a decision to maintain the 
current rate w a s reinforced by the recent 
• evidence of moderation in the growth of the 
monetary aggregates. 

' .v 
.-•'-•v.! / • ' \ 
' "•^.V.MC 
A* oOf c'd,' -. . 
•^ufs^V 
j : ! ' 
J ' V' 
i V^' 
V > W'J-WV'.A-i't^ 
.J*... Jr^L IJ 
; t; i 
• u' i r 
3596 
A , •• . ... . .i • 
Item No. 3 
9/14/73 
i0J: M e d i a t e release 
for 
September 14, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today published 
c°BUo.nt a tentative? statement of proposed policies to regulate the use of 
•iable Orders of Withdrawal (NOWs) by member banks in Massachusetts and 
WfiV 
at an 
shire. The statement also proposes a plan for Federal Reserve 
NaTs for thrift institutions, 
-he. Board vi 11 receive co:ur.ent on he proposal ihrough November 1. 
The Board * e -statement of proposed policies follows passage of 
tc g3 into effect S s ^ m b e r !!>, permitting the use of NGWs in 
U o states 
Negotiable orders of withdrawal — vhinh function as a che :!*. 
PtPl. ^atlv hs 1 
y being issued by mutual, savings banks in Massachusetts and 
W Haaii, i, 
* ^rurci. 
;Hva nav law per,idts all depository institutions in those 
^Inct 
«*.lcv th'ir customers to write negotiable orders of withdrawal 
interest-bearing savings accounts. The customary type of check is 
eri 0f>,. 
s^mst ncn-interest bearing derna.d deposits, 
Ise c.f NC'Js by rcember banks is subject to the Board's, authority 
C1ibe regule-.tions governing the paysssnt of interest c-n deposits. 
The Board recommendedt pending adoption of final rules for HOW 
ent 
Co 
' that, member banks abstain from offering MOW accounts, since 
Proposals are tentative and subject tc change in the light of 
R e i v e d . 

3597 
- 2 -
The Board said that it is considering the following possible 
te&ulatory policies with respect to NOW accounts at member banks: 
i 
-- A NGW account is regarded as a form of savings account. It is 
c°Usequently available only to individuals and to certain non-profit organiza-
tions # 
The Board regards the offering of HOW accounts £-s a regional, 
^ n t , and accordingly proposes to limit these accounts to resIdentg 
lsthu3etts and New Hampshire (except that a bank could offer NOW 
accour 
lLfj to any of its present customers). * 
— The Board further believes £?ome constraints on the use of HOW 
are needed to rvoid an excessive initial conversion from Ir.iti ly 
accounts to HOW accounts in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Such 
an Gv 
f-rtLua]ity would be consistent with the public interest only if brought 
an orderly and carefully planned mouner, 
Therefore> the Board proposes-, for the present: 
1. To permit the payment of interest only or the 
miiumuiu (or average) balance in such accounts, 
and 
2, To require that the bank impose a service 
charge on all KOUs written by the e'eposi tox-
in excess of 10 items per month. This would 
not preclude service charges on the first 
10 items. 
As alternative means of constraint, the Ror.rd is considering 
xt interest, is to be paid: 
T. That the number of MOWd a depositor 
writes not exceed 15 per month, and 

, 3598 
** 
2. That there be a minimum, or average daily 
balance of $400 in a MOW account. 
This alternative, the Board said, might be further conditioned, to 
Pl'°vide that: higher interest could be paid on unused balances in the NOW 
acc<HuiL over $400 than on the first $400, and to require a service charge 
U 
j.n excess of 15 per month. 
At the saiae time, the Hoard believes HOW accounts should be differer-
klate<* from ordinary savings accounts, and for this reason proposes that intere 
Pald-°n unused portions of HOT? accounts be less than the ceiling rate foi or-
savings accounts (which 5s 5 per cen<). Hie Beard is giving .reliminary 
Cc^iUei-atlon t o a celling of 4.5 per cent for unused funds in KO'.J accounts. 
The Board also proposed tint the thrift institutions offering NOU 
a, 
he permitted to make full use of the Federal Reserve check collection 
to clear NGWs. This woul/l be conditioned upon a requirement that ncn-
'l'0l!'bct tbvtft; institut?ons wishing to use Federal Reserve facilities to clear 
101,3 ma^t:ain a clearing account with the Federal Reserve. The Board suggests 
B«ch accounts -- to comply with the law regarding nonmember clearing 
^ n t c ... b e a b a i a n c e h>ad with the Federal Reserve Hr.uk of Boston equal 
t0 
, 
w 
cent of total ECW accounts in the thrift institution. This would oc 
lj'n to the reserve requirement on member bank savings deposits (including 
^Counts). 
It Is not intended to affect present clearing arrangements for 
commercial bemcs. 
Comment should be sent to the Secretary of the Eoard, Washington! 
l>. 0 
0 
* 2°55l, not letor than November 1, 1973. 
A copy 
ther&oard'ff statement is attached. 

, 3599 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR 217] 
Statement of Proposed Policies with Respect to 
NOW Accounts in Massachusetts and New Hampshire 
On September 15, 1973, a new Federal law becomes effective 
with applicability to interest-bearing accounts from which the depositor 
is allowed to make transfers of funds by negotiable orders of with-
drawal (NOWs) . At the present; time, such accounts are offered only 
hy mutual savings banks in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. 
Section 2(a) c-f P.L. 93-100 provides that "No depository 
institution shall allow the owner of a deposit or account on which 
interest or dividends are paid to make withdrawals by negotiable or 
transferable instrument for the purpose of making transfers to third' 
Parties, except that such withdrawals may be made in the States of 
Massachusetts and New Hampshire." The Board regards this language 
affirmatively authorizing, so far as Federal law is concerned, NOW 
^counts in the two Slates for all depository institutions, including 
Member banks. This authorization, however, is subject to the Board's 
k''oad author ivy under section 19 (j) of the. Federal Reserve Act to 
prescribe regulations governing the payment of interest on deposits 
in member banks. 
The Board proposes to treat the NOW account as a form of 
savings deposit. This would mean that (1) such accounts may be offerred 
0illy to individuals and certain non-profit organizations, and (2) with-
drawals from such accounts are subject to the right of the bank to 

-2-
r°quire the deposi «r to give, at least 30 clays not ice of any intended 
Vxt-bdrawal, although this right need not be exercised. 
The Board believes some limitation is needed so as to assure 
t lat the offering of NOW accounts remains a regional, rather than a 
aational, experiment. Accoringly, the Board proposes to limit these 
accounts to residents of Massachusetts and New Hampshire (except that 
a bank could offer NOW accounts to any of its present customers). This 
l s insistent, with t:he statutory focus on "the owner of a deposit: or 
account on which interest or dividends are paid." 
« 
The Board further believes that some, constraints on the use 
u c h accounts are needed in order to differentiate. NOW accounts from 
ordinn, , i 
* i 
-
lcll> demand deposits. Witaout some constraints, one can expect an 
exc • 
t-.-.si.ve initial conversion from family checking accounts to NOW 
ccounts in the two States. Such an eventuality would be consisent 
the public in tore Jt only if brought about: in an orderly and 
! lly pl.-.nncd manner. Therefore, the Board proprses for the prese 
en: 
t O r o • 
» ^ci.iit: the payment of interest on the minimum (or average) balance in 
accounts, subject to the requirement that the bank impose a per-
f"ri service charge on all items written by the depositor in excess 
of , , p items-per-month limit. 
(Suc.h a requirement would not preclude 
eerv-i 
..c.-> cb"rges on the first 10 items.) As an alternative, it is 
c o n h i i 
'•veering requiring, if interest is to be paid, (1) that the auml er of 
t'°tiable orders of withdrawals that a depositor writes per month not 
eilCeed i c 
items, and (2) that there be a minimum (or average daily) 
•lance of $400 in the account. 
(This alternative might be further 

J3- 
• 3601 
conditioned to provide a lower interest rate, ceiling on the first $400 
in the account than on the. remainder, and to call for sotne ner-item service 
charge for items in excess of 15 per month.) 
At the same time, the Board believes that NOW accounts should 
be differentiated in some fashion from ordinary savings deposits. For 
that reason, it proposes to set the maximum rate of interest payable on 
such deposits at a level below that for ordinary savings deposits; it 
X s Preliminarily giving consideration to a maximum rate of 4-1/2 per 
ccnt for NOV/ account:,. 
The Federal Reserve Syster also proposes to permit all thrift 
institutions offering NOW accounts to make full use of the Federal 
eserve collection system in order to clear these items—so long as 
uny noumoiubor thrift institution clearing items in this manner maintains 
a clearing account w.'th the Fed era 3. Reserve Bank of Boston. '"Full use" 
the collection system would include sending items directly to 
the Federal Reserve for collection and receiving items drawn on the 
institution directly fcom the Federal Reserve. Under section 13 of the 
*ederul Reserve Act, the nonmewber clearing account must be of a size 
icient to offset the items in transit. The dollar amount of the 
i^eair, in transit vouu! generally t e a function of the total dollar 
a*!cmrit of the UQU accounts in the institution. Accordingly, the Board 
in°Poses to require, as a condition to clearing NOw's for a nonr.ember 
t},r,ft institution, a clearing balance of 3 pel cent of the total NOV/ 
^counts of the institution. This requirement is not intended to affect 

3602 
-4-
present clearing arrangements for nonmember commercial banks. In this 
connection, it should be noted that the reserve requirement for a 
member bank's savings deposits (including NOW accounts) is presently 
3 per cent. 
Interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, 
or arguments with respect to the Board's proposed policies. Any such 
material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to 
be received not later than November \L, 19 73. Such materia J will be 
made available for inspection and copying upon request, except as 
Provided in i 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of 
In format: ion. 
Pending the Board's adoption of final rules for NOW accounts, 
it is recommended that member banks abstain from offering NOW accounts. 
Offering NOW accounts, in thi present uncertain environment, would be 
unwise, since the proposed policies outlined above are tentative and 
subject to change before final adoption in light of the public, comments 
received. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 14, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore K. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

or* rK * i 
o b i o 
TITIE 12-BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 4 
9/14/73 
CHAPTER II-FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A-BOARD OF GOVERNORS GF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. G] 
"Single Credit Rule" in Stock Option 
and Stock Purchase Plans 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (15 u.S.C. 78g), the Board is issuing the following amendment 
t 0 P a rt 207 by revising § 207.4(a)(2)(i). The change deletes the 
si-iigle credit rule" in § 207.4 (a) (2) (i) and substitutes the provision 
tint-
- each extension of credit pursuant to that section may be treated 
Sc-Parat:ely. This clarifies that withdrawal of collateral may be made 
a f t G r Proper repayments have been made for at least three years and 
f. i 
deficiency as defined in § 207.4(a)(2)(ii) has been repaid with 
re»Peci 
8 G t forth below. 
!ct to each extension of credit. The revised § 207.4(a)(2)(d) 
§ 
~ MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
(a) Stock option and employee stock purchase plans. 
'k 
k 
k 
k 
(2) 
k 
k 
k 
(i) Each such credit extended to any officer or employee 
to this subparagraph (2) in connection with the exercise of 
ti u 
S under one or more plans or with the periodic exercise of rights 
a single plan, when such credits shall be outstanding at the same 

3604 
Attachment 
- 2 -
time, may be treated separately from any other credit extended 
Pursuant to this subparagraph (?.) and shall be treated separately 
f V 
ora any other credit extended pursuant to sections 207.1(c), (d) 
llIHl (s) of this part: Provided, That the collateral with respect 
to 
ea'ch individual credit extended pursuant to such plan or plans shall be 
3-^entifled with, and shall have loan value only with respect to. 
S U c h individual credit. 
The requirement of section 553(b) of Title 5, United 
Q i . 
e s Code, with respect to public participation was not followed 
•connection with this amendment since it relieves a restriction. 
This amendment shall become effective 30 days following 
of publication in the Federal Register. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 14, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B, Feldberg 
Chaster B. Foldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
r 

3605 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
9/14/73 
FIRST ALABAMA BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied f o r t h e Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.s.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire the successor by merger to First 
National Bank of Athens, Athens, Alabama ("Bank"). The bank into 
wllich Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means to 
Militate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
th 
6 Proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization Is 
eated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views has been given in accordance with 
® 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
aUci the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
n l*ght of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls six banks with aggregate deposits of 
^7°2*3 million, representing about 10.5 per cent of total deposits of commercia. 

3606 
-2-
b*nks in Alabama.!/ Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $25.6 million) 
w°uld not significantly increase the concentration of banking resources 
i n the State. 
Bank is the largest of two banking organizations located in Limestone 
C°Unty, which is the relevant banking market, with approximately 60 per 
Cent of the market deposits. However, the smaller banking organization 
in the market is a branch of a bank which is a subsidiary of one of 
the largest holding companies in Alabama. It is unlikely that Applicant's 
ae(luisition of Bank would enable it to obtain a dominant position in 
t h e market in view of this affiliation. Applicant's closest banking 
Subsidiary is located to the east in Huntsville, about twenty miles 
distant. Though some residents of Limestone County commute to 
in Huntsville and the surrounding area, there seems to be 
^ttle overlap between the two areas for deposits and loans. Consummation 
0f this transaction would not appear to have a substantially adverse 
effect on existing competition. Nor does the Board find that there would 
be 
a substantially adverse effect on future competition caused by 
^Plicant's acquisition of Bank, particularly in light of Alabama's laws 
bating to branching. Applicant also has a mortgage banking subsidiary 
j 
^ntsville. However, this subsidiary has not been active in Linestone 
Cq 
U n ty» making only one loan there during the entire year of 1972. 
1/^aT—-
c 0 m
 
b a n k i n S data are ae of December 31, 1972, and reflect holding 
Par*y formations and acquisitions by the Board through July 31, 1973. 

3607 
- 3 -
C°nsumniation of the transaction would not eliminate substantial existing 
0 r future competition in mortgage banking. The Board concludes that 
c°mpetltive considerations of the application are consistent with approval, 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and future 
Pr°spects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are satisfactory. 
filiation with Applicant should provide Bank with greater management 
ePth and continuity, and this factor lends some support for approval 
of 
application. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
eeds of the community to be served also lend support for approval of 
the 
application since Applicant will enable Bank to provide an increased 
an§e of services. In its consideration of Applicant's proposal, the 
°ard has noted covenants not to compete given Applicant by Bank's 
rectors. The covenants bind the Directors not to enter the banking 
Usiness l n the city of Athens for a period of five years. The Board 
f j 
s that these provisions are reasonable and do not constitute a 
C o approval of the application. The Board finds that consummation 
of t h 
a e transaction is in the public interest. 
On the basis of the record the Application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ 
before the thirtieth calendar date following the effective date of 
thi 0rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 

; 3608 
- 4 -
s Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ effective September 21- 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
ij VotT—~— 
atld j;cl-ng for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Bucher, 
n o t °Hand. Voting against this action: Governor Mitchell. Absent and 
doting: Governors Brimmer and Sheehan, 

3609 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR MITCHELL 
I would disapprove the application by First Alabama Bancshares, 
Illc-» to acquire First National Bank of Athens. A Plan of Reorganization, 
incident to the subject proposal, contains a covenant not to compete 
Which, by its terms, prohibits Bank's present directors from entering 
tli 
* 
e banking business in Athens for a period of five years from the 
Active date of the proposed acquisition. In my view such covenants 
necessarily inhibit competition and should not be sanctioned by the 
°ard. The reasons underlying this conclusion are set forth in detail 
in a Dissenting Statement, in which I was joined by Governor Brimmer, 
in 
the matter of Applicant's proposed acquisition of Citizens Bank 
Guntersville which was approved by Board action of this date. 
Se Ptember 2 1 , 1973 

. 3610 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
T . 
, 
Item No. 6 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9/14/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
E O K H E S P U N n E N C E 
TL) T H E 
B O A R D 
September 17, 1973 
Chemical International BankIng 
Corporation 
2 0 Pina Street 
Nev; York, New York 10015 
Gentleman: 
As requested In our letter o; July 30, 1973, he- Board 
^Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CIBC") to 
P^chase and bold, directly or iudirectry, 50 per cent frc the shares 
p " Chemical and Howard de Walden Tr st Limited (''CHWT"), St. Peter 
Oiiernsex .. Channel Islands, at a c >s£ of approximately 
^>000, provided half of the shares are. acquired within one year 
J:c"n the dite of tliis letter. 
The -'sard's consent to the papered pm-c'->r, o n-^.d holding 
"hares of CHKT by CiBC xx granted su; j ici: to :he. fell.owing cur.-
Qi'tiona: 
(1) That CIBC shall not bold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in CHl/T if CliWT at: : y t.-.rae fails 
to restrict its act/vities to tho?& permissible to 
a corporation in winch a eorporatisn organised 
under Section /.5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
rould, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase end hold stock, or if CI-JU'l establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in the Channel Islands or elsewhere, 
n any Manner , which, at the time woul d not be per-
missible to CI/.'C; 
(2) That, when n.quested by the Board of Governors, C'J.PC 
will furnish the Boatd with such reports regarding 
the activities of CHWT as it may require from time 
to time; and 
WKF 

Chemical Intarnati 
1 
Bank Corporatism- 
-2-
3611 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CUV7T 
be reported under Section 211,8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if C11WT were a corporation 
organized under Section 25 (a; of the Federal Reserve 
Ac £. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
^spends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
to restrictions on loans granted by Citt'T in the Channel Islands 
Ali 1 "ia currency of that -country. 
You have requested consent 'or CHWX to engage in the business 
underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board5 s consent to 
activities is conditioned noon your Corporation's obtaining 
* 'G Ptior consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares 
should CaWT acquire stock of individual issuers costing 
Afl c;Xcqoq of $5Q'"i. 000 or representing 25 per ce.-t or more of the 
shares of zxiy co:i in any, except in the case of underwriting 
°Parations covered by fii.ru. commitments from sub - u nd :*.rvr iters or tho.r 
t^chasers. With respect to trading in securities in which Corporation: 
prohibited irca invc- tin?. by the provisions of the eighth p.ra-
^ a r h oi Section 25(a) of i he i'ederaJ Rose-ve Act:, the J.'oard's c.n-
:;s further <. ends tier ad on the i ?a.fc t< .at UdV/'j; v ill acquire such 
only a< . r ale:, or uc-dervi iter, main.tain a size 
turnover 
outcry thac is za&bc nabie in relation to demand, and dispose 
J'Uch shc',i;ea 
'.thir. a reason Hole " time. 
in-v 
h sl-
lr. tb/'r Co--meet.ion. shares acquired as a dealer need. 
IJf)»- 
^ 
5 
t- " 
reported trader Section ?X 1.8(d) of Regulation K. However. 
arc to be reported as a separate class, together with the dace 
' ^--quisiti^n, ov. any C: 11 Report of Condition or similar repo:t 
R e s t e d by in'.:; Boarli. 
("Cjj, ti 
If CXBC is acquired by Chemical International Finance. I.tc'U 
j. j 
)> the Board grants con sent: for C.CF to purchase arid hold the 
to'LrCS 0i CHJ"rj- v';llc>1 this consent authorizes CISC to purchase, subject 
tie snrns conditions as im osed on Clod's hoi din . of the investment. 
(-],, , 
The fcuegoing consent in given ou the condition that 
^ 
investment vill be made within the Foreign C -edit Restraint 
" Uftlines as they 
to Chemical Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly ycurs, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
C-h e s t e r B, F e 1 d L e r g 
Secretary of the Board 

U O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
OK the 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9/14/73 
e C o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
D a t e 
September is, 1973. 
of the Secretary 
Subject: Application of Mellon National 
Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pa., t o a c. 0 u 
governor Bucher 
Carruth Mortgage Corporation. New 
Orleans, La. 
/ 
At t^-Boarcl meeting on September 14, 1973, the Board voted 
--"I to approve the subject application, mine being the dissenting vote. 
I have considered the merits of the application further and 
wish to change my vote from denial to approval. 1/ Would you 
Please see that the Board's minutes and the Order and Statement to 
ke issued on the application appropriately reflect this change. 
te 
meraorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated July 2, 1969, 
nS "Internal Procedures with respect to Holding Company and 
&er Applications" provides: 
"6. Voting by Board members. 
Votes of Board 
members will be cast at the meeting at which the 
% 
merits of an application are considered and final 
action is taken[.]... [Ajny member who partici-
pated in the Board's action may alter his vote 
at any time prior to approval of the Order arid 
Statement if such alteration does not result in 
a change in the Board's decision." 

3613 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
9/14/73 
FIRST INTERNATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a bank hold-
in8 company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPUed for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
e v°ting shares of the successor by merger to Citizens National Bank in 
Abu 
has 
ene» Abilene, Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged 
110 significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the 
§ shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of 
the s 
u°Cessor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of 
the sbares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
^Son s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3A. 
°f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
h 
a s been timely received. The Board has considered the application in 
Ugt^ 
o f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Texas, presently 
<*nttol, 
1/ 
2/ 
12 banks 
with aggregate deposits approximating $2.6 billion, 
es£nting 7.4 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
St4t*. A 
Acquisition of Bank would increase Applicant's share of State 
*ntere
aCidit:ion t o i t s 1 2 subsidiary banks, Applicant indirectly controls 
? $6?S!>S 
less than 25 per cent in five banks, with aggregate deposits 
V Alx%v xnilli°n (as of December 31, 1972). 
^tty f o
 a n k ing data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect holding corn-
nations and acquisitions approved through August 31, 1973. 

3614 
- 2 -
e-P°sits by .25 per cent and x^ould not result in a significant increase in 
the 
c°ncentration of banking resources in the State. 
Bank (approximately $87 million in deposits) is the second largest 
of 15 , 
°anks in the Abilene banking market (approximated by the Abilene 
SMsa) and controls 26.4 per cent of the deposits in commercial banks in 
Market. Applicant's subsidiary closest to Bank is located in Dallas, 
178 mil* 
s away, and no meaningful present competition exists between any 
of Atmi -i 
fpiicant's subsidiary banks and Bank. Moreover, there appears to be 
likelihood for the development of any significant amount of future 
petition between these institutions in viet-z of the distances involved 
*nd Tex**' 
Acls restrictive branching law. The market appears relatively 
active for de novo entry due to the recent decline in the population 
of ^ 
e Abilene SMSA and the market's below-average population to banking 
ratio. Thus, the proposed acquisition would not appear to have a 
ificant adverse effect on potential competition. The Board concludes 
c°mpetitive considerations are consistent with approval of the application, 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
V k > an rl r 
or Applicant and its present subsidiary banks, are regarded as 
c°ry. Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
nth a 
aPproval of the application. Although there is no evidence in the 
tn , 
indicate that the banking needs of the residents of the Abilene 
V
w 
fa market are not currently being met, the proposed affiliation is 
tkeiy to 
° result in expansion of the range of services presently offered 
In addition, affiliation with Applicant would give Bank access 

3615 
- 3 -
to 
b 
or 
c°nsiderable financial resources which will enable it to provide an 
eased lending capacity. Considerations relating to the convenience 
needs of the community to be served are consistent with approval of 
application. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 
Vould k 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
rr\e thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
(M 
later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 17, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
* a n d Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
e r and Sheehan. 

, 3616 
B D A R D OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
/^'pVcoV;.. 
or THE 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9/14/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
September 17, 1973 
^irst National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Cerit'J. 
emen: 
As requested in your letter of June 4, 1973, the Board of 
°vernors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to purchase 
a! hold directly or indirectly all of the shares of Citicorp Location 
ri,rauce) S.A. ("CLF"), Paris, France, at a cost of approximately 
^>400,000 (about $1,012,000), provided the shares are acquired within 
° U e year from the date of this letter. 
. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
afes of CLF by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in CLF if CLF at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a cor-
poration. in which a corporation organized under Section 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent 
of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or 
if CLF establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in France or else-
where, in any manner, which at the time would not be 
permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of CLF as it may require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CLF be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if CLF were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

3617 
First National City Overseas 
-2-
Xnvestinent Corporation 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of 
iruiaedlately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by CLF in France in the currency 
°f that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Sank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
Association, and By-Laws of CLF. 
The Board also grants consent for FNCOIC to continue to hold 
shares of CLF after CLF issues obligations with maturities in 
excess of one year up to a total of $12,000,000. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
^vestment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
a s they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
