MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Federal Advisory Council 
September 7, 1973 

o 1 cl; 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D.C., at 10:00 a.m. 
on Friday, September 7, 1973. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. English, Hauge, Dorrance, Fultz, 
Storrs, Bassett, Stults, Morey, Lind, 
Miller, Bond, and Rogers, Members of 
the Federal Advisory Council from the 
First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, 
Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, 
Eleventh, and Twelfth Federal Reserve 
Districts, respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of 
the Council 
President Dorrance spoke of progress being made in preparing 
a deport that the Council hoped would be helpful and responsive to 
questions posed by the Board to the Council last spring regarding 
bank capital adequacy and the regulatory approach to bank holding 
companies. 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the outlook 
for general economic activity over the fall 

3480 
9/7/73 
-2-
and winter months? 
In particular, how do 
Council members assess the prospects for 
retail sales, housing, and business spending 
on plant and equipment and inventories over 
the months ahead? 
The Council anticipates a slowing in general economic activity 
over the fall and winter months to perhaps a zero to 2 per cent annual 
rate of real growth in the first quarter. Gains in personal income in 
current dollars will continue and lift total retail sales. The rate 
of increase, however, will slow from the pace that prevailed earlier 
in the year and sales of durables such as automobiles, furniture, and 
appliances may decline at least moderately by the first quarter of 1974. 
Moreover, because of the extraordinary rise in food prices, some 
consumers may be obliged to defer or postpone purchases of items such 
as clothing and other soft goods. 
Housing permits and starts, both of which peaked in the final 
quarter of 1972, are likely to continue to trend down, perhaps at an 
accelerated pace. This will reflect primarily a reduced demand although 
the smaller inflow of funds into thrift institutions and local usury 
laws also are factors. Moreover, the fact that alternative investments 
at higher yields are available to mortgage lending institutions also 
roay tend further to reduce the flow of funds into mortgages as these 
institutions attempt to increase earnings to cover rising interest costs. 
The rise in policy loans is causing insurance companies to cut back on 
their mortgage loans and commitments. 
The rather persistent and sharp rise in new orders for capital 
goods together with the increase in capital appropriations by manufac-
turing firms all suggest a strong rise in business spending for plant 
and equipment over the fall and winter months. The volume of sales, 
together with the decline in the inventory-sales ratio, as well as the 
rise in new orders received by manufacturers, tend to support the 
expected rise in inventory investment. 
Affirmative responses were made to an assumption expressed 
by Governor Brimmer that the projected growth rate of zero to 2 per cent 
the first quarter of 1974 was derived from projections obtained by 
Council members from the economic staffs of their banks rather than 

9/7/73 
-3-
from the economic briefing of the Council yesterday by the Board's 
staff. Reference was also made to other projections of significant 
slowing in the rate of economic growth or actual decline in overall 
economic activity over the months ahead. 
B. How does the Council view the outlook for 
prices and wages? What impressions are 
Council members getting from their various 
contacts regarding the effectiveness of 
Phase IV controls? 
The members of the Council expect prices to continue to rise 
and that the rate of increase will slow by the end of the year. This 
will reflect some easing in the upward push of food and agricultural 
Prices as crops are harvested. 
Wage increases, which have been relatively moderate, are 
likely to increase, reflecting the rise in the cost of living. This 
eventually will tend to impact adversely on prices. However, with 
the slowing in the rate of expansion of business activity, it is 
Possible that many business firms may be unable to pass through all 
°f this increase in wage costs, which would affect profits. 
The members of the Council, generally, have the impression 
from their various contacts that Phase IV controls have been of limited 
effectiveness in curbing inflationary pressures and that there is 
growing disenchantment with the control effort. 
Inquiry was made whether the growing disenchantment with the 
control effort to which the Council had referred arose from the regu-
latory burden or from the expected impact on profits. In the ensuing 
discussion Mr. Miller remarked that the freeze on meat prices was 
onerous in his District because meat production was an important part 
o f its economy, and this feeling of being burdened had spread into a 
general reaction against the whole idea of controls. Other members of 

9/7/73 
-4-
the Council indicated that a major reason for the increasing disen-
chantment among businessmen was that the controls created uncertainty 
as to what Governmental actions might lie down the road. Mention was 
also made of a feeling on the part of consumers that controls had 
not been effective in controlling prices and of the inequities and 
extra work involved from the standpoint of businessmen. 
2. Financial developments. 
A. How do Council members evaluate the current 
and prospective demands for business and 
other types of loans? 
Does the Council have 
any evidence that higher interest rates or 
stiffer non-rate terms are serving to reduce 
effective credit demands? 
The members of the Council believe there may be some slight 
easing in the demand for credit in some areas, but overall the current 
and prospective demand for bank loans continues strong. 
The exceedingly large rise in consumer spending for durables 
has lifted consumer credit to record levels. A slowing in this type 
°f spending and subsequent financing also seems reasonable to expect 
but to date has not developed. 
The Council has seen some evidence that higher interest rates 
stiffer non-rate terms are serving to reduce effective credit demands 
^-n special areas such as construction and mortgage lending. 
At the request of Chairman Burns for examples of projects that 
had been deferred or scaled down because of the terms that would have 
to be met in order to obtain credit, members of the Council cited 
^stances of reduced automobile inventories, postponement or reduction 
°f plans to expand manufacturing capacity, and deferred construction 
°f some shopping centers, a hotel, and some rental housing. 
It was 

3 \m 
9/7/73 
-5-
emphasized that although the cost of money was becoming a more prominent 
element in negotiations by borrowers, the examples mentioned were only 
early indications, and stronger evidence of the impact of credit restraint 
was probably a little further down the road. 
Council members agreed that bankers were becoming somewhat more 
insistent upon compensating balances, but could not always get the 
percentage they considered desirable. Chairman Burns said that since 
compensating balances represented immobilized funds, data on such balances 
would be helpful in interpretating Mj_ statistics. 
However, responses 
indicated that it was not feasible to gather meaningful figures. Only 
in an isolated transaction were compensating balances specified precisely; 
more typically, they were a matter of continuing negotiation based on 
shifts in a customer's borrowings. 
Governor Mitchell referred to the rate of increase in business 
loans in recent months and inquired what measures might be effective in 
persuading bankers to moderate that expansion. He asked also whether 
some of the increase might reflect business diverted from the commercial 
Paper and capital markets or from other intermediaries. Mr. Hauge 
commented that with a spread of approximately 75 basis points between 
the prime rate and the commercial paper rate, the problem of diversion 
of demand from the latter market was still a serious one. 
In response to a question regarding the extent to which borrowers 
were seeking bank accommodation rather than going to the capital market, 

<3484 
9/7/73 
-6-
one member of the Council spoke of several instances in which his 
bank had made it clear to public utilities that it would not continue 
to finance their capital needs and the utilities had therefore had 
to go to the capital market. However, another member expressed the 
view that public utilities were not overstaying their bank lines at 
the moment, but were moving to the market for funding on about a normal 
schedule. Other comments indicated that utilities tended to drag their 
feet in funding their indebtedness when bond yields were high, but there 
appeared to be less of that now than there had been in 1969 and 1970 
when bond rates had been higher in relation to bank loan rates. One 
Council member indicated that his bank was refusing to support corpo-
rations that sought accommodation in order to defer going to the capital 
Market because they expected lower bond rates. 
Governor Mitchell observed that whereas consumer loans and 
mortgage loans appeared to be generally consistent with a 10-12 per cent 
growth rate in GNP, business loans seemed to be above that level. He 
inquired whether plant and equipment spending or precautionary borrowing 
might account for the excess. The ensuing discussion indicated some 
impressions among members of the Council that there was some precautionary 
borrowing. Also, members from agricultural districts commented on 
difficulties of moving grain crops and livestock that, together with 
the higher prices of such agricultural products, caused a greater than 
formal need for financing. Also, since bank credit was available at 

3485 
9/7/73 
-7-
relatively low rates, arbitrage might be entering into bank credit 
demands to some extent. 
Other comments indicated that the two-tier prime rate, with 
a lower level being available to small business borrowers, had resulted 
in increased borrowing by such customers. Typically, the rates available 
to them in the past had been about 1 to 1-1/2 per cent over the prime, 
but now some could borrow at rates below the prime and were taking 
advantage of that fact. Only in very small banks had it been true 
that rates to small business borrowers did not respond to changes in 
the prime; in even moderate-sized banks, loans to small businesses had 
been tied to the prime rate, and the present situation was to their 
advantage. 
However, it was suggested that the favorable borrowing terms 
might be stimulating a larger volume of operations among small businesses. 
Governor Holland requested the Council's interpretation of 
the billion dollar drop in business loans at weekly reporting banks in 
the last two weeks of August. Ensuing comments cautioned that the 
decrease should not be viewed by itself; it would probably be well to 
examine August and September figures together before reaching any 
conclusions. A seasonal bulge in borrowing would occur in September. 
More importantly, however, because of the lead and lag factor, restrictive 
Monetary policy was only recently beginning to affect bank lending 
activities. 
A view was expressed that long-term loans were still available 
to corporations through purchase of their special issues by insurance 

9/7/73 
-8-
companies. Although policy loans of insurance companies had risen 
substantially, it was not believed that that rise had caused insurance 
companies to curtail long-term lending to any significant extent thus 
far, because they had a high degree of liquidity. A member of the 
Board observed that with corporate borrowing in the capital markets 
sluggish during a period when capital expenditures have been rising 
rapidly, the money must be coming out of banks. A responding comment 
indicated that corporations also had a great deal of liquidity, as 
evidenced by the substantial growth in large-denomination CD's. 
B. Have banks' lending policies, including their 
willingness to make new loan commitments, changed 
appreciably in recent months? 
If so, have 
particular types of loans or categories of 
borrowers been more affected than others? 
The members of the Council believe that the lending policies 
many banks, including their willingness to make new loan commitments, 
have tightened appreciably in recent months consistent with the more 
restrictive policies of the Federal Reserve. We believe that the effect 
°f these policies will become increasingly evident with the passage of 
time. 
There also has been some slow-down in the rate of mortgage and 
other real estate lending in many banks. In general, loans for acquisi-
tions and non-productive purposes are difficult to obtain. 
Affirmative response was made to an inquiry whether the last 
sentence in the Council's reply reflected self-discipline by bankers. 
An inquiry by Chairman Burns as to what kind of action would 
be effective quantitively in deterring business loan expansion and yet 
cause a minimum of interference with individual banking transactions 

3 4 8 7 
9/7/73 
-9-
brought a suggestion that a further increase in marginal reserve 
requirements on large certificates of deposit above a base amount 
probably would best suit those objectives. One member of the Council 
said that the May 1973 action imposing such a marginal reserve require-
ment had caused his bank to lower its target on such CD's and reinforced 
its determination to cut business and industrial loans. 
Chairman Burns stated that the Board had authority to go higher 
than 10 per cent on reserve requirements on selected types of time 
deposits; the Board's Legal Division believed that it was a sound legal 
interpretation that the 10 per cent statutory limit contemplated an 
average of the reserve requirements on all kinds of time deposits, 
and that within that average the rate could exceed 10 per cent on 
Particular types. He wondered if members of the Council were aware of 
this possibility, and requested them to indicate by a show of hands if 
they were so aware. No affirmative responses were made. One member 
°f the Council asked whether the average would apply to individual banks, 
so that no bank would have to pay more than 10 per cent on its total 
time deposits, and was informed that that would be the case. 
A member of the Board inquired whether an increase in the 
marginal reserve requirement on large CD's would be likely to affect 
business loans primarily or whether the impact would spread to other 
types of credit. Responses indicated that, although most of the banks 

9/7/73 
-10-
with which Council members were affiliated operated principally in 
the business sector, an action directed toward business loans would 
probably be accompanied by some fallout on mortgage loans. 
Several 
members of the Council indicated that, although the volume of mortgage 
loans had declined, their banks continued to make such loans at rates 
within applicable usury laws even though the funds were obtained at 
higher rates. The banks absorbed the loss, feeling an obligation to 
serve the needs of their communities and their customers. 
However, 
an increase in the cost of money to the bank through an increase in 
the marginal reserve requirement on CD money would add to the economic 
Pressure against making mortgage loans. One member of the Council 
commented that similar forces operated with respect to loans for food 
Production. His bank was now lending to farmers at the maximum rate 
allowed under the usury law, even though its cost of money was higher. 
If the cost of the money increased, agricultural loans might have to 
he cut because the bank could not absorb larger losses. 
A member of the Board inquired whether Council members expected 
a business loan total at year-end that would reflect a substantial 
increase or would be about seasonally normal. Responses indicated 
expectations of seasonally normal levels, or nearly so, although one 
member spoke of a decline of 5 or 6 per cent by the end of the year. 
Another member commented that his bank had turned down loans to credit-
worthy customers that, if they had been granted, would have added about 
H per cent to its loan account. 

3489 
9/7/73 
-11-
C. What is the outlook for time and savings flows 
at depository institutions over the months 
ahead? What has been the impact on savings 
flows of the July increase in Regulation Q 
ceilings? What is the Council's reaction to 
the four-year "no ceiling" certificate of 
deposit for consumers? 
The outlook for time and savings flows at depository institutions 
over the months ahead is not optimistic. The members of the Council commend 
the Board's action in increasing the Regulation Q ceiling and authorizing 
the "no ceiling" 4-year certificates of deposit for consumers. These have 
been helpful in moderating the time and savings deposit outflows from banks 
and we suggest that the Board examine the 5 per cent limitation for possible 
liberalization. 
President Dorrance observed that there was great variation in 
the extent to which banks had resorted to the "wild card"—the four-year 
certificates of deposit without interest rate ceiling. Ensuing comments 
indicated that some banks had been aggressive in issuing the new instrument 
and within a short time had put on their,books an amount of these certif-
icates equal to 10 per cent or more of their total deposits. More recently, 
the rate of growth of four-year certificates appeared to have abated 
somewhat. A number of the banks with which Council members were associated 
had issued certificates up to the 5 per cent limitation, although some 
°f that total merely represented a shift of funds within the bank. Some 
members indicated, however, that their banks had resorted to the four-
year certificates only defensively, to retain deposits that otherwise 
would be lost. One member remarked that if his bank ran an advertising 
Program to promote such instruments, costs would be run up, and it seemed 
Preferable to purchase needed funds in the Federal funds market. 

3430 
9/7/73 
-12-
In other discussion it was agreed that savings and loan associ-
ations x^ere experiencing more difficulty than commercial banks. The 
question was whether they were at a disadvantage because they had 
previously attracted more hot money or because commercial banks were 
more aggressive. It seemed likely that the former factor was more 
important, but it was difficult to obtain conclusive evidence. Mr. English 
suggested that evidence might be provided if it were possible to gather 
figures to show the relative size of consumer accounts in savings and 
loan associations, mutual savings banks, and commercial banks. In his 
view, larger accounts tended to be more volatile. 
Chairman Burns commented that the 5 per cent limitation was not 
a rigid figure in his own mind. However, there had been two reasons 
why a limitation had been imposed. One was connected with the outflows 
°f funds experienced by thrift institutions; the other was that evidence 
began to appear of what could be interpreted as unsound banking. A bank 
that guaranteed from 7.5 to 10 per cent interest for four years and 
assumed such an obligation with respect to 30 or 40 per cent of its 
total deposits could be in difficulty three or four years hence under a 
different rate structure. The imprudence of a small number of institu-
tions could lead to a regulation that would not have been necessary for 
the large majority of banks. Since the savings and loan associations 
had been subject to a 5 per cent limitation, it had seemed desirable to 
Put in place a similar rule for commercial banks. 

3 ' 1 9 1 
9/7/73 
-13-
D. What is the overall situation in regard to 
the cost and availability of funds in the 
mortgage credit area? 
Is there evidence that 
building activity is being significantly 
retarded in some parts of the country? Are 
there indications of financial distress among 
lending institutions, builders or developers, 
and, if so, how serious or widespread are 
these problems? 
The members of the Council reported that the overall situation 
as to the cost and availability of funds in the mortgage credit area is 
one of growing difficulty. The outflow of savings from thrift institu-
tions and the rise in policy loans at insurance companies have reduced 
the supply of funds available for mortgage loans. The usury laws in 
some States also are a serious impediment to the flow of funds into 
home mortgages. As a consequence, there is increasing evidence that 
building activity is being retarded. There are a few indicators of 
possible financial distress among smaller and less well financed builders 
and developers. Certain districts report that there has been a significant 
rise in the vacancy rate in residential and commercial buildings. 
I 
President Dorrance spoke of instances in the Third District 
in which properties in leisure home developments were selling slowly. 
formerly, such residences usually had been purchased for cash derived 
a 
• 
• 
. 
• 
from the sale of the buyers' present and largely debt-free homes. However, 
| 
many buyers now were unable to pay cash because in selling their present 
homes they found it necessary to accept second mortgages in part payment, 
since the purchasers were able to obtain only limited mortgage credit. 
Comments that followed cited various ways in which mortgage loans were 
being limited, such as by raising rates, requiring payment of points, 
increasing down payment requirements to as much as 50 per cent, and 
limiting (to as low as $25,000) the maximum amount of the mortgage regard-
less of the value of the residential property. 
It was indicated that 

9/7/73 
-14-
some loans were being made by banks to savings and loan associations at 
the prime rate, where there had been a history of a customer relationship 
and with a compensating balance required. 
3. Balance of payments. 
A. Do Council members anticipate any significant 
changes in the nation's international capital 
flows over the months ahead, including short-
and long-term funds and equity investments? 
The Council anticipates significant changes in the nation's 
mternational capital flows over the months ahead. 
Both short- and long-term capital flows are expected to turn 
increasingly favorable for the U.S. balance of payments in the months 
ahead. The net outflow of long-term capital, which fell to $1.5 billion 
in 1972 from $6.8 billion in 1971, is likely to be in approximate 
balance this year, with a small surplus a possibility. 
As the improving U.S. trade picture is documented over time, 
the dollar should continue to strengthen, particularly against the 
Continental currencies. 
In the case of short-term money flows, we should begin to see 
some recycling of the huge volume of dollars that has flowed into foreign 
central banks over the past two years. A similar but perhaps slower 
result of a stronger dollar will be the emergence of sizable flows of 
Portfolio capital into the United States. 
There has already this year been a decided improvement in the 
direct investment flow, and such improvement should be expected to 
continue. Foreign investors are making substantial direct investments 
either through construction of facilities in this country or through 
the acquisition of all or a part of U.S. companies. 
On balance, the U.S. will still be a net long-term direct 
investor next year, but the gap between U.S. direct investments abroad 
and foreign direct investments in this country should be significantly 
Arrowed. 

9/7/73 
-15-
Mr. Hauge inquired about the Washington atmosphere with 
respect to foreign direct investment in the U.S. He noted that a 
bill had been introduced limiting foreign ownership of U.S. companies, 
while at the same time many States were actively encouraging foreign 
investments. Responses indicated that there seemed to be a new fear in 
some Congressional circles regarding foreign investments in the U.S. 
Unfortunately, the subject seemed to have emotional overtones and 
insufficient distinction was being made regarding the relative adverse 
Potential for different kinds of investments in different industries. 
4. Monetary policy. 
A. What are the Council's views on monetary and 
credit policy under current circumstances, 
including the use of the various policy instru-
ments? 
The members of the Council believe that the present policy 
of 
monetary and credit restraint should be continued and that any signs 
°f an early easing of restraint should be avoided. The Council commends 
the Board's use of the market mechanism in the implementation of policy. 
Chairman Burns inquired whether the Council would advocate 
any further tightening of monetary and credit restraint. 
Responses 
indicated that further tightening would not be consistent with the 
Council's basic assumption regarding the economic outlook. The present 
time was thought not to be an appropriate one for further restraint 
because of the inherent lag between policy actions and their effects; 
the restrictive measures adopted some months ago were only now beginning 
to have substantial impact. 

9/7/73 
-16-
In response to another question by Chairman Burns, Council 
members indicated that they favored an increase in the discount rate. 
In fact, in retrospect, it would have been preferable to have had a 
higher discount rate and a higher prime rate. Mr. Hauge commented that 
Wall Street had been expecting the Board to take two actions--an increase 
in marginal reserve requirements on large CD's and an increase in 
discount rates. He and Mr. Morey believed that a double-digit prime 
rate would be effective in deterring loan demand; increases of 1/4 of 
1 per cent at a time tended to be absorbed into the market. Achievement 
by the Federal Reserve of only a modest increase in the money supply 
also would help to get the message across. While it was recognized that 
the Federal Reserve faced a difficult problem in judging whether it was 
overstaying or understaying in its policy of restraint, the greater risk 
now appeared to be in understaying. 
A member of the Board said that he had the impression that pattern 
borrowing was occurring, in which banks came to the window frequently 
enough to take advantage of the bargain discount rate but not so frequently 
a s to be subjected to administrative pressure. Responses by Council 
members assented that pattern borrowing was probably occurring. 
Members of the Council expressed the view that bankers were 
unclcar regarding the rules for coming to the discount window. Moreover, 
there seemed to be some inconsistency in discount window administration 
from one District to another. 

9/7/73 
-17-
Mr. Stults expressed the view that if the discount rate were 
a penalty rate, it would convey clearly the System's policy stance and 
would serve to regulate member bank borrowings; in particular, there 
would not be any pattern borrowing for the sake of taking advantage of 
a cheap rate. He inquired what would be the problems of having a penalty 
discount rate. 
Chairman Burns observed that the discount rate would have to be 
significantly higher before it became a penalty rate, and that that 
consideration seemed to rule out the penalty approach as a practical 
matter as far as the present was concerned. However, for some unknown 
future time and circumstances, there might be a good case made for 
setting the discount rate at a penalty level. As for identifying the 
circumstances under which a bank should-or should not come to the 
discount window, he could not give an all-inclusive answer, but it 
seemed fair to say that a bank should not come to the Fed just to 
increase its profits. 
Governor Mitchell commented that there might be a question 
whether the Federal Reserve at this juncture should respecify the rules 
using the discount window; he noted that an effort to do that in 
1966 had merely led to further misunderstanding. 
Governor Brimmer observed that recent borrowing at the discount 
window seemed to be concentrated in'second-tier banks. Apparently, as 
monetary restraint progressed, the money market banks tended to refrain 

3 - 1 38 
9/7/73 
-18-
from the use of the window, possibly because of counseling by Reserve 
Bank lending officers, but the banks in the range of about $200 million 
to $1 billion of deposits came in more frequently, and they were the 
ones among which pattern borrowing was found. He remarked that only 
recently had banks augmented their funds for lending by adjusting their 
investment portfolios, and then principally in their holdings of U.S. 
Governments. 
He thought it might have been expected that decisions to 
liquidate investments would have occurred earlier rather than let 
discount window borrowing rise to an aggregate of $2-$2.5 billion. 
Chairman Burns expressed the hope that bankers would help monetary control 
by 
not borrowing as often as their calculations suggested would be to 
their advantage. 
Mr. Fultz observed that many corporate treasurers could not 
nnderstand why they had to borrow at the 9.75 per cent prime rate and 
maintain compensating balances, when banks were able to go to the 
discount window for funds at 7.5 per cent. 
Mr. Storrs commented that the Council's statement that the 
Present policy of monetary and credit restraint should be continued in 
about the current posture reflected a belief that the banking community 
had been reasonably responsive. 
He hoped that the Federal Reserve would 
avoid a recurrence of the experiences of 1953, 1957, and 1968, when 
excessive liquidity was pumped into the economy as soon as signs of a 
recession were seen. 
In the early months of a recession, liquidity supplie 

9/7/73 
-19-
beyond the needs of the economy contributed to inflation later. He 
hoped that if the economy did show a tendency to falter in early 1974, 
any moves toward ease would not be too precipitate. 
B. The Board would appreciate having the Council's 
advice as to whether, and if so to what extent 
and how soon, the Federal Reserve should amend 
Regulation Q to permit member banks in Massa-
chusetts and New Hampshire to offer NOW accounts 
to their customers. 
The Council will report orally on this item. 
President Dorrance suggested that the Board hear comments by 
English regarding the NOW account question. 
Mr. English emphasized that he was treating the problem as a 
local issue. He was not speaking for the Council, nor could he say 
that he was speaking for all of the banks in Massachusetts and New Hampshi 
it seemed to him that since the Congress had in effect validated this 
innovative excursion in two States, it probably would be appropriate for 
the Federal supervisory authorities to conduct an orderly but limited 
exPeriment. He believed that all depository-type institutions in those 
two States should be permitted to offer NOW accounts, which should be 
o f a household type and not available to corporations. Thus the compet-
itive impact on commercial banks and on institutions in adjoining States 
would be tempered. Interest rate ceilings should be the same for all 
institutions offering the accounts. He felt that the ceiling should be 
5 Per cent rather than lower, because he would like to see the encour-
agement of a transaction charge, which would make NOW accounts a more 

3498 
9/7/73 
-20-
healthy instrument. Looking at the question from the standpoint of 
a bank outside the two States involved, it would seem proper, if 
financial institutions were to enter into the area of payment of 
interest on demand deposits, to distinguish between the price for the 
money and the price for the service. Also, if different kinds of 
institutions entered the NOW account business, it would be only equitable 
for all institutions to be subject to the same reserve requirements on 
such funds. 
President Dorrance referred to an optional topic on today's 
agenda requesting the Council's reactions to the Administration's 
legislative recommendations on the report of the President's Commission 
°n Financial Structure and Regulation (the Hunt Commission). 
The 
Council had not prepared a formal answer, preferring to hear more 
regarding the Board's special interests. President Dorrance inquired 
whether the Board would like to have the Council members send individual 
Written comments. 
Chairman Burns indicated that it would be very helpful to have 
Written comments by individual Council members. 
It was understood that 
the Treasury Department would be issuing revised legislative recommen-
dations in the near future. He suggested that the Council members 
react to the tax credit proposal in particular. Also, it was expected 

3499 
9/7/73 
-21-
that a comprehensive study by the staff of the House Committee on 
Banking and Currency would become public within a short time. He was 
reluctant to request comments on the study as a whole, because it had 
such broad coverage, but comments by Council members on any particular 
aspects that drew their special interest would be helpful to the Board. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on November 1-2, 1973. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
