MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 30, 1973 

1052 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 30, 19 73. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance If 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial 
review. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the 
individual briefings. 
Mr. Rippey reviewed pertinent legislative developments, 
after which Mr. Kichline presented a review of recent stock market 
If 
Other officers and staff of the Division also attended 
portions of the meeting. 

jL * J b>J 
3/30/73 
-2-
and margin credit developments. Mr. Kichline's comments were based on 
a memorandum from the Capital Markets Section dated March 27, 1973, 
a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the staff who attended the meeting only for the 
purpose of the reviews then withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of First National Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, 
to acquire shares of American Bank of De Soto, De Soto, Missouri, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Zions 
Utah Bancorporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, to acquire shares of 
Financial Credit Corporation, Idaho Falls, Idaho, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Bancorp, 
Inc., Corsicana, Texas, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
to Citizens State Bank, Malakoff, Texas, and authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 

1054 
3/30/73 
-3-
Pursuant to the recommendation in a memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated March 20, 1973, the Board 
unanimously approved a letter to Solitron Devices, Inc., Tappan, 
New York, denying its request for an interpretation holding that Regu-
lation G (Securities Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or 
Dealers) did not cover certain credits extended by Solitron for the 
purpose of purchasing bonds convertible into Solitron listed stocks. 
A copy of the letter sent to Solitron is attached as Item No. A. A 
copy of the letter informing the Securities and Exchange Commission 
of this matter is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Office of 
Management and Budget recommending against enactment of S. 826, a 
bill to authorize the issuance of United States conservation savings 
bonds. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston approving an increase in the Bank's ceiling on total 
controllable expenses for the first half of 1973. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 7. 
With a memorandum dated March 22, 1973, the Office of the 
Controller had submitted a report reviewing performance under the 
Board's budget for the year 1972. The Board unanimously accepted the 
report, a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 

1055 
3/30/73 
-3-
duPont Trust. In a memorandum dated March 14, 1973, the 
Legal Division recommended that the Board make a preliminary determi-
nation that the Alfred I. duPont testamentary Trust, which had 
retained its nonbanking subsidiaries, had failed to divest control 
or a controlling influence over the banks in the holding company 
system of Florida National Banks of Florida, Inc., a divestiture 
required by the 1966 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, and 
had failed to terminate bank holding company status. 
During discussion Governor Mitchell suggested that prior to 
notifying the duPont Trust of a Board decision, the Board might 
desire to have the staff's decision reviewed by Mr. Herbert J. Miller, 
an independent attorney, who would likely represent the Board in the 
event the duPont Trust contested the Board's decision and requested 
a hearing. The Board favored this suggestion and it was understood 
that the Board would consider the matter further following Mr. Miller's 
review of the case. 
Patagonia Corporation. On March 29, 1973, the Board considered 
the application of Patagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, to acquire 
indirectly shares of Creditel Corporation, Omaha, Nebraska. At that 
time alternative views were expressed concerning the provision in the 
application containing a convenant not to compete, and the matter was 
deferred for further consideration. 

3/30/73 
_ 5-
During today's discussion a majority of the Board favored 
approval of the application conditioned upon the applicant omitting 
the covenant not to compete. While Governor Daane also favored 
approval of the application, he was against conditioning the approval 
on omission of the covenant not to compete. 
The Board thereupon unanimously approved the application and 
authorized issuance today of an order in the form attached under 
Item No. 8. It was understood that the Board's approval of the appli-
cation was conditioned upon removal of the covenant not to compete, 
and that a statement reflecting that decision would be prepared for 
the Board's later consideration. It was also understood that 
Governor Daane would submit a concurring statement citing his opposition 
to the condition imposed by the Board. 
Commerce Bancshares. In a memorandum dated March 19, 19 73, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of Commerce Bancshares, 
Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of The Citizens National 
Bank of Harrisonville, Ilarrisonville, Missouri. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 9 . 
The meeting then adjourned. 

. 1057 
Item No. 1 
3/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL CHARTER CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of American Bank of De Soto, De Soto, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and none has been timely received. The Board has 
considered the application in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls nine banks with deposits of $550 million 
representing 4.4 per cent of aggregate deposits of commercial banks 
in Missouri. 
(All banking data are as June 30, 1972, and reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved through 
February 28, 1973.) Upon acquisition of Bank with deposits of $15 
million Applicant would continue to rank as the fifth largest bank 
holding company in the State. 

, 1058 
- 2 -
Bank is the second largest of seven banks in the Festus-
Crystal City banking market and holds 24 per cent of total deposits. 
The largest and third largest of these banks are affiliated with 
bank holding companies and control deposits of 27 and 18 per cent, 
respectively. Applicant controls three banks in the adjacent St. 
Louis banking market with aggregate deposits of $107 million. Bank 
does not directly compete with any of Applicant's subsidiary offices, 
the closest of which is more than 30 miles removed from Bank. 
Furthermore, it does not appear that significant future competition 
would develop between them in view of their wide separation, the 
presence of numerous intervening banks, and restrictions placed on 
branching by State laws. Competitive considerations are consistent 
with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
subsidiary banks, and Bank are considered to be generally satisfactory, 
and prospects for each appear favorable. Banking factors are consis-
tent with approval of the application. The primary banking needs 
of the area are being served at the present time. However, Applicant 
proposes to assist Bank in expanding its lending and financing areas to 
include construction lending, accounts receivable financing and lease 
financing, to establish trust and investment services, and also to 
provide better auditing procedures and better training and development 

3-
1059 
programs for ntw employees. Considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served are consistent with approval 
of the application. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kans as City pursuant to delegated authority, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective March 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of Che Board 
(SEAL) 
JV Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, iV.cae, and Jjvinuuer«, Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
and Coveriioia Sheeiian and hucher. 

. 1 0 G O 
Item No. 2 
3/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ZIONS UTAH BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Financial Credit Corporation 
Zions Utah Bancorporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire 66-2/3 
per cent or more of the voting shares of Financial Credit Corporation, 
Idaho Falls, Idaho ("FCC"), a company that engages in the activities 
of making consumer installment loans, purchasing consumer installment 
sales finance contracts, making loans to small businesses, financing 
dealer inventory, and sale of credit life and credit health and 
accident insurance to direct borrowers from FCC and to debtors on 
consumer installment sales finance contracts that are purchased by 
pCC on a continuing basis within one to five days after the execution 
°f such contracts. Such activities have been determined by the Board 
to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public 
interest factors, has been duly published (38 Federal Register 3630). 
^ e time for filing comments and views has expired, and none has been 
deceived. 
Applicant controls two banks in Utah with aggregate deposits 
o f $323.4 million, comprising 15.1 per cent of the State's total com-
me*cial bank deposits.-^ Applicant also controls, as wholly-owned 
i^Ali banking data are as of June 30, 1972. 

-2 
10 til 
subsidiaries, a consumer loan company, a thrift loan company, both 
of which operate in Utah, and six industrial banks operating in 
Colorado. FCC is a consumer and commercial finance company operating 
four offices in Idaho with total assets of $2.1 million. Both of 
Applicants subsidiary banks engage in the making of loans to 
individuals and businesses. However, no subsidiary of Applicant 
derives a significant amount of business from geographic areas served 
by FCC. Conversely, FCC does not operate in areas served by sub-
sidiaries of Applicant. Therefore, it appears that consummation of 
the proposal would not eliminate any existing competition between 
Applicant and FCC. No adverse competitive effects would appear to 
result from removal of Applicant as a potential competitor of FCC 
because Applicant is not considered a likely de novo entrant into 
FCC's markets, and there are several other competitors in the product 
market, and substantially all of the geographic markets, that FCC serves. 
Applicant's access to financial resources may increase resources 
available to FCC, thereby possibly retarding or reversing the decline 
in loan volume that FCC has experienced. The increased availability 
of financial resources to FCC should increase competition and public 
convenience. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 

i 
-3-
1062 
determination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) 
of Regulation Y and to the Board1s authority to require such modification 
or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board1s regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors^J effective March 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
and Governors Sheehan and Bucher. 

. 1063 
Item No, 3 
3/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST BANCORP, INC. 
Order Granting Approval of Acquisition of Bank 
First Bancorp, Inc., Corsicana, Texas, a bank holding 
company x^ithin the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), to acquire the successor by merger to Citizens State 
Bank, Malakoff, Texas ("Bank"). The successor bank to Bank has no 
significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of voting 
shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition is treated 
herein as a proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and none have been timely received. The Board has considered 
the application in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank, First National Bank of Corsicana, 
and received permission from the Board on March 13, 1973, to acquire 
all of the outstanding shares of Citizens National Bank in Ennis. 
The aggregate deposits of $58.5 million of these two banks represent 
less than one-half of 1 per cent of all deposits of commercial banks 
in Texas.Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $4.9 million) would 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1972. 

10 64 
- 2 -
not significantly increase the concentration of banking resources 
in Texas, 
Bank is the fourth largest of six banks in its market and 
has about ten and a half per cent of deposits there. There is little 
substantial existing competition between Applicant's banking sub-
sidiaries and Bank, since they are located in different banking 
markets and also due to the fact that Applicant owns 24 per cent of 
the voting shares of Bank. This latter factor militates against the 
probability of future substantial competition developing between 
Applicant and Bank. The Board concludes that competitive considera-
tions are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and future 
prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank appear satis-
factory, particularly in view of the fact that approval of this 
application will result in increased capital for Bank. These factors 
lend support for approval of the application. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the community to be served are con-
sistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

-3-
1065 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective March 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
and Governors Sheehan and Bucher. 

1066 
B O A R D D F G • V E R N D R S 
Item No. 4 
3/30/73 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
/; 
UJ 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRCFSS UFf lCIAL CORIiESPUNDKNCE 
TO T H t HOARD 
April 3, 1973 
Mr. James S. Trager 
Secretary 
Solitron Devices, Inc. 
256 Oak Tree Road 
Tappan, New York 
10983 
Dear Mr. Trager: 
This will refer to your letter of January 3, 1973, to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York in which you request that the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System consider de novo the cir-
cumstances under which the Federal Reserve Bank of New York concluded 
that the credit which your company (hereinafter referred to as 
"Solitron") extended to its employees for the purpose of purchasing 
convertible debentures is subject to Regulation G (12 C.F.R. 207). 
The Board has considered your request and concludes, on the 
basis of the facts submitted and for the reasons stated below, that 
the extensions of credit in question became subject to all the pro-
visions of Regulation G when Solitron voluntarily took over the bank 
loans in March 1.969. 
The facts on which the Board relied in considering your 
request may be summarized as follows: 
In 1967, Solitron made a public offering of convertible de-
bentures. In order to facilitate purchases of these debentures by its 
own employees, Solitron undertook to guarantee bank loans to such 
employees who decided to purchase debentures. These bank credits were 
secured by the purchased debentures. Solitron's arrangement with the 
bank provided that in no instance should the guaranty exceed $10,000 
for any one employee. 
During 1968 and 1.969 interest rates went up, money became 
tighter, and the stock market declined. The bank, in about March 1969, 
informed Solitron that it intended to call the loans and called attention 

1067 
Mr. James S. Trager 
to the guarantees. Rather than permit the loans to be called, Solitron 
waived the formality of formal notice and itself took over the credits, 
including the collateral. 
It is your contention that if Solitron had permitted the bank 
to sell the collateral at that time, Solitron would have been liable for 
a substantial portion of its guarantees of $10,000 per employee and 
would have had no recourse except action against its employees. You 
state further that Solitron's only feasible alternative was to pay the 
bank the face amount oC the notes and acquire both the notes and the 
collateral. 
Solitron urges that by taking these steps it was in effect 
implementing its guarantees to the bank, thereby continuing to maintain 
margin-exempt credit to Solltron's employees which was originally extended 
in 1967, i.e. prior to the adoption of Regulation G, in the form oi 
Solitron's guarantees. 
In the view of the Board, however, there are two extensions 
of crcdit to Solitron's employees in 1967; one was made by the bank in 
its capacity as primary creditor and involved the disbursement of loans 
to the borrowers. The second extension of credit was made by Solitron 
as secondary creditor when it guaranteed the bank loans in amounts 
not exceeding $10,000 per employee. 
Solltron's guarantees were subject to two conditions which 
would have to occur before it became liable on the guarantees, i.e. 
(i) the bank must make a formal demand upon the employees to repay 
the loans, and (2) the employees refused or were unable to repay. 
The facts indicate that the bank never made such a demand 
upon the employees. This means that Solitron did not become the sub-
sequent primary creditor as a result.of its guarantees, but solely by 
virtue of its voluntary assumption of the bank loans. Its guarantees 
and the concomitant "extensions of credit" by virtue thereof were thereby 
extinguished, and a new creditor-debtor relationship arose. 
Accordingly, it is the opinion of the Board of Governors in 
addressing itself herein solely to the question presented in your 
letter dated January 3, 1973, that Solitron should have complied with 
all the, provisions of Regulation G when the bank loans were assumed 
in March 1969. 
In view of the responsibilities assigned to the U. S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the 

IOCS 
Mr. James S. Trager 
- 3 -
enforcement of the Board's securities crcdit regulations, copies of this 
letter will be made available to the SEC in Washington, D. C. and to 
* its regional office in New York. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1069 
1 1 1 £ 
m
m
-
-
B D A R D D F 
G • V E R N • R 5 
o r THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 D 5 5 1 
Item No. 4 
3/30/73 
D I V I S I O N 
• F 
S U P E R V I S I O N 
A N D 
R E G U L A T I O N 
April 3, 1973 
Mr. Stanley Sporkin 
Associate Director 
Division of Enforcement 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
500 North Capitol Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20549 
Dear Mr. Sporkin: 
Pursuant to authority delegated by the Board of Governors, 
this refers to you for whatever action the Commission may deem 
appropriate, the Regulation G Inspection Report of Solitron Devices, 
Inc., Tappan, New York (Solitron). The report, prepared as of 
July 25, 197 2 by staff of the Federal Reserve. Bank of New York, 
describes alleged violations of the Board's Regulation G, "Secu-
rities Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers", 
Regulation X, "Rules Governing Borrowers Who Obtain Securities 
Credit," and possible violations of Regulation T, "Credit by Brokers 
and Dealers". This referral is made in accordance with discussions 
held between Walter K. Walsh of the Commission's New York Regional 
Office and R. John Hogan of this Division's staff, In connection with 
the Regional-Office's investigation of other possible securities law 
violations by Solitron, as well as the Commission's enforcement 
responsibilities in connection with the Board's margin regulations. 
The following summarizes apparent serious violations of 
the Board's margin regulations which staff of the Board and the 
Federal "Reserve Bank of New York be'lieve to merit positive consideration 
in any administrative action contemplated by the Commission against 
Solitron: 
1. Extending credit not in conformity with the 
margin requirements of Regulation G (§ 207.5(a) 
and § 207.5(b)). 

1070 
Mr. Stanley Sporkin 
2 
2. Arranging of credit not in conformity with 
the margin requirements of Regulation U 
L I U — 
lllt-l J. ( } J. 11 
J - t 
(§ 207.4(e)). 
-3. Failure to obtain F. R. Form G-3 Purpose 
Statements in connection with extensions 
or arrangements of credit collateralized 
by margin securities (§ 207.1(e)). 
4. Failure to register timely by filing F. R. 
Form G-l Registration Statement pursuant to 
Regulation G (§ 207.1(a)). 
"'-5. Failure to report on F. R. Form G-4 Quarterly 
Reports arranging of credit collateralized by 
margin securities (§ 207.3(a)). 
6. Aiding and abetting violations of Regulation X 
by employees of Solitron (§ 224.6(b)). 
In connection with credit allegedly extended or arranged 
in violation of the margin requirements by Solitron for its employees, 
the employees themselves may share culpability for these alleged 
violations pursuant to section 224.2(a) of Regulation X. 
There is also enclosed for your information a copy of a 
recent letter from Secretary Tynan Smith to Solitron regarding the 
applicability of,the margin requirements of Regulation G to certain 
credits assumed by Solitron from the Tappan Zee National Bank. The 
letter sets forth the circumstances surrounding the credits in question 
and Board staff's reasons for belief that the maximum loan value 
provisions of section 207.5(b) of Regulation G are applicable. 
It is felt that the alleged violations of the Board's margin 
regulations by Solitron and its employees merit the most serious 
consideration. Staff of the Board and of the New York Reserve Bank 
wish to cooperate with you and your staff in developing detailed 
information regarding such violations in any way you may deem appropriate 
in connection with their inclusion in any enforcement action against. 
Solitron by the Commission. 
Frederic Solomon 
Director 
Enclosures 

B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
1071 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
D F 
T H E 
Item No. 4 
3/30/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R M C S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H C 
B O A R D 
March 30, 19 73 
* Mr. Jay Brenneman 
Legislative Reference Division 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
• Dear Mr. Brenneman: 
This is in response to the request by the Office of 
Management and Budget dated March 1, 1973, for the views of the 
Board of Governors on S, 826, a bill to authorize the issuance 
of United States conservation bonds. 
S. 826 appears to be the successor bill to S. 43 (92rid 
Congress, 1st Session), which the Board opposed in the past. The 
Boaru continues to recommend against enactment of this legislation 
for the reasons enunciated in its letter of April 9, 19 71. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Beard 
o 

1 0 ^ ^ 
S 
B O A R D D P G D V E R N G R 5 
I t e m N q > 
? 
.•ooVcoiV. 
OF THE 
3/30/73* 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
' * 'R- \ 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
p, , . . ( j { I I ( i
' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D H R E S P O N O F N U t 
' J ^ ^ ^ W ^ V i T - * 
T O 
T H E 
E I P A R D 
L RE*. 
April 2, 1973 
Mr. Frank E, Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear President Morris: 
The Board has approved an amendment to your 
Bank's budget submission for January through June 30, 1973 
to include estimated expenditures resulting from the employee 
salary action taken by your Board of Directors on December 11, 
1973. 
This action raises the total controllable 
expense ceiling for the Boston Federal Reserve Bank to 
$14,289,000 for the first half of 1973. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

Item No. 8 
3/30/73 
For immediate release 
March 30, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced its approval of an application by Patagonia Corporation, 
Tucson, Arizona, a bank holding company, to acquire Creditel 
Corporation, Omaha, Nebraska. 
Attached is the Board's Order relating to this action. The 
Board's Statement on this matter will be released at a later date. 
Attachment 

1074 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PATAGONIA CORPORATION * 
Order Approving Acquisition of Creditel Corporation 
Patagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire through its 
subsidiary, Model Finance Company, all of the voting shares of 
Creditel Corporation of Nebraska No. 1, Omaha; Creditel Corporation 
of Nebraska No. 2, Omaha; and Creditel Corporation of Nebraska No. 4, 
Columbus; all located in the State of Nebraska and each of which is 
a wholly owned subsidiary of Creditel Corporation, Omaha, Nebraska. 
Creditel Corporation through these subsidiaries engages in the activities 
of making, acquiring, or servicing loans or other extensions of credit 
for personal, family, or household purposes, and acts as insurance 
agent or broker in selling credit life, accident and health insurance, 
and property damage insurance for collateral supporting loans to 
borrowers from these finance subsidiaries. Such activities have been 
determined by the Board to be closely related to the business of 
banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), (3) and (9)(ii)(a)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
has been duly published (38 Federal Register 1964). The time for 

1075 
- 2 -
filing comments and views has expired, and the Board has considered 
all comments received in the light of the public interest factors set 
forth in § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)). 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons set forth in the Board's Statement, which will be 
released at a later date. This determination is subject to the 
conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's 
authority to require such modification or termination of the activities 
of the holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds 
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, 
or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective March 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
and Governors Sheehan and Bucher. 

1070 
Item No. 9 
3/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Citizens National Bank of Harrisonville, Harrisonville, Missouri ('Bank"). 
1 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
j 
of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant has twenty-four subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
I ' 
of $1 billion, representing approximately 8 per cent of total commercial 
bank deposits in Missouri, and is the third largest bank holding company 
and banking organization in the State. (All banking data are as of 
June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board through February 28, 1973.) The acquisition of Bank 
($12 million deposits) would increase Applicant's share of the State's total 
deposits by 0.1 per cent, increasing concentration in Missouri only slightly. 
Bank, located 35 miles south of downtown Kansas City, is 78th in 
size of 124 banks in the Kansas City banking market (approximated by the 
Kansas City SMSA less the portion of Cass County south of Harrisonville). 
Applicant, through its lead bank, Commerce Bank of Kansas City, N.A. ($564.2 

1077 
-2-
million deposits), and two other subsidiary banks, holds 15.4 per cent of the 
commercial bank deposits in the Kansas City banking market and thereby ranks 
as the largest banking organization in the market. However, Applicant is 
not dominant in the market; and the next two largest banking organizations each 
control approximately 11.0 per cent of market deposits. Acquisition of Bank 
would increase Applicant's share of the relevant market to 15.7 per cent. 
This slight increase in concentration, which would result from acquisition 
of a bank on the fringe of the market, is not considered significant. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary banking office is located 30 miles 
north of Bank. There is only a minimal amount of present competition between 
any of Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank. Furthermore, it appears unlikely 
that any significant competition would develop between any of Applicant's 
present subsidiaries and Bank in the future due to the distances separating 
the banking offices, Missouri's restrictive branching law, and the presence of 
numerous banking alternatives in the intervening areas. The area is not 
presently attractive for de novo entry since the population per banking 
organization in Cass County is approximately 3,600 as compared to the State 
average of approximately 7,800. The Board concludes that consummation of 
the proposal would not significantly eliminate existing or potential 
competition. To the extent that Bank under Applicant's operation can increase 
its competitive effectiveness, other banks which obtain a portion of their 
deposits from Harrisonville may grow at a somewhat slower rate than otherwise 
might be expected. However, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
Proposal would have no significant adverse effects on any of these banks. 

. 1078 
-3-
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. While it 
appears that major banking needs in the area are presently being met, con-
siderations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served are consistent with approval of the application. 
In connection with this application, two protesting banks petitioned 
the Board to conduct a formal hearing on the application pursuant to the 
Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(g)(2,3)) or to allow protestants to 
present views orally before the Board. On February 15, 1973 the Board denied 
protestants' requests on the basis that, since the Comptroller of the 
Currency did not recommend denial of the application, no formal hearing was 
required by the Act. Further, it appeared to the Board that there were 
sufficient facts on the record for the Board to make an informed judgment 
on the issues and that an oral proceeding was unnecessary. However, 
protestants were afforded a two-week period to submit additional material 
for the Board's consideration in connection with its decision on the 
application. 
In addition to raising competitive contentions, the protesting 
banks contend that the acquisition of Bank by Applicant would be in violation 
of the branch banking restrictions of the State of Missouri. The Board has 
repeatedly stated that a State's restrictive branch banking laws are not 
automatically applicable to bank holding company operations, and the Board 
has found in this case, based upon the facts of record, that Bank will not 

. 1079 
-4-
be operated in such a manner that it and any banking subsidiary of Applicant 
could be characterized as being engaged in unitary operations. The Board, 
therefore, concludes that Bank will not constitute a branch office of any 
banking subsidiary of Applicant. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be 
in the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective March 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, -
Daane and Brimmer.' Absent and not voting:'Chairman Burns and Governors 
Sheehan and Bucher. 
