MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 4, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 4, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Conne11, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved recommenda-
tions made by Governor Mitchell in a memorandum of December 27, 1972, 
(1) for designation of an expert, as requested by the Department of 
State, to serve on a study group to review a proposed new uniform 
negotiable instrument for use in international trade transactions; and 
(2) the engaging of Mr. John J. Clarke as a consultant for this purpose 
with opportunity for the Board to review the arrangement at the end of 
six months. A copy of the letter sent to the Department of State is 
attached as Item No. 1. 

" ' 8 0 
1/4/73 
_2-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bamerical 
International Financial Corporation, San Francisco, California, to 
Purchase shares of Bamerical Mortgage and Financial Company, Hato Rey, 
san Juan, Puerto Rico. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
In a memorandum of December 27, 1972, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section, after review of 
the status of First National Bank in Dallas, Dallas, Texas, recommended 
that the Board determine that the bank had no activities subject to 
the grandfather provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act. The Board 
unanimously approved that recommendation and authorized issuance of 
a determination to that effect. A copy of the determination subsequently 
issued is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Century Bancorp, 
inc., Somerville, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of North Shore Bank 
and Banking Company, Lynn, Massachusetts, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
.Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
Financial Corporation, Kalamazoo, Michigan, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to The Commercial Bank of Stambaugh, Stambaugh, 
Michigan, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 

1/4/73 
_3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southwest 
Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to Houston Intercontinental National Bank, Houston, Texas, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
°f the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Cambridge 
Agency, Inc., Cambridge, Nebraska, (1) to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of The Cambridge State Bank, and (2) to 
acquire shares of Cambridge Insurance Agency, Inc., and to engage de 
novo in the sale of credit life and credit accident and health insurance. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A 
copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Heldenfels 
Brothers, Contractors, Corpus Christi, Texas, for an exemption from the 
restrictions in the Bank Holding Company Act regarding nonbanking activ-
ities, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A 
copy of the order is attached as Item No. 8. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Equitable Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum of December 26, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of Equitable Bancorpora-
tion, Baltimore, Maryland, to acquire shares of University National Bank, 
Rockville, Maryland. 

1/4/73 
-4-
The application was approved unanimously and issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision was authorized. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 9. 
Pacific Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum of December 29, 1972, 
the Legal Division recommended approval of the proposal of Pacific 
Bancorporation, Bakersfield, California, to incorporate a nonbanking 
division of the company under section 4(c) (12) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act. A draft letter was attached. 
After a discussion during which agreement was reached upon 
changes in the draft letter, the proposal was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter in the form in which it was transmitted is attached 
a s Item No. 10. 
Grandfather rights (Chicago City Bancorporation). Chicago City 
Bancorporation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, which controlled Chicago City 
Bank and Trust Company, had indefinite grandfather rights with respect 
to an insurance agency. However, a question was raised whether Mayflower 
Investors, Inc., a corporation that had owned Chicago City Bancorpora-
tion, continued to control it after divestiture of its stock. When in 
control of Chicago City, Mayflower had taken certain actions that further 
weakened the financial position of the holding company. 
In a memorandum of December 21, 1972, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section recommended that no ter-
mination of indefinite grandfather rights be required with respect to 

1/4/73 
_5_ 
the operation of the insurance agency by Chicago City Bancorporation. 
It was noted that in addition to being subject to indefinite grand-
father rights, the insurance activities were among those permissible 
for a bank holding company, and that the insurance activities were 
unrelated to the questionable circumstances cited with respect to May-
flower Investors. The staff further recommended that in its public 
statement regarding grandfather rights the Board indicate its awareness 
of and dissatisfaction with Chicago City Bancorporation's weak financial 
Position and management policies. 
Discussion centered upon the questionable transactions by 
Mayflower Investors and the need to insulate the subsidiary bank against 
unsound practices. At the conclusion of the discussion the Board agreed 
that no termination of grandfather rights should be required with respect 
to the operation of the insurance agency by Chicago City Bancorporation, 
hut that an investigation should be undertaken as to whether Mayflower 
Investors remained a bank holding company because of continued control 
of Chicago City Bancorporation. The issuance of a determination on 
those terms was authorized. 
Hamilton Bancshares. After agreement upon changes in a draft 
that had been distributed, the Board authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting its approval, on November 30, 1972, of the application of 
Hamilton Bancshares, Inc., Chattanooga, Tennessee, to acquire shares 

1/4/73 
-6-
Hardeman County Savings Bank, Bolivar, Tennessee. A copy of the 
order in the form in which it was issued is attached as Item No. 11. 
Third National Corporation. In a memorandum of November 13, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of Third National 
Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to The First National Bank of Lawrenceburg, Lawrenceburg, 
Tennessee. 
The application was approved unanimously and, after agreement 
upon changes in a draft that had been distributed, the issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision was authorized. A copy of the order in 
the form in which it was issued is attached as Item No. 12. 
NAIA petition. Pursuant to a recommendation by the Legal Divi-
sion in a memorandum of January 2, 1973, the Board authorized issuance 
of an order denying the petition of the National Association of Insurance 
Agents, Inc., for a stay of any proceedings to implement the Board's 
interpretation (published on August 31, 1972) relating to insurance 
agency activities under Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 13. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

fcli 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
•£OVCOV{:-. 
AR THE 
11em No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1/4/73 
'Ak^^VJ'.'A J"-
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
- 
< 
M
: 
•y. LWL^' 
kDQPJESS OFFICIAL CURRESPDNOENEL 
January 4, 1973 
Honorable Richard D. Kearney, Chairman 
Advisory Committee on Private International Law 
^Partment of State 
Washington, D. C. 20520 
^ar Ambassador Kearney: 
This letter is in reply to your letter of November 28, 1972, 
addressed to Mr. Hack.ley, Assistant to the Board, in which you indicate, 
t-tet the Department of State would consider it most helpful if the Board 
Tv°uld designate an expert tc serve on a study group established to review 
* Proposed uniform law regarding the use of negotiable instruments in 
Sternational trade transactions. 
The Board has approved the designation of Nr. Jchii J. Clarke 
t o serve as a representative of the Federal Reserve System on the study 
group described in your letter. Mr. Clarke will be engaged by the Board 
0li a consultant basis under an arrangement, to be reviewed after a period 
six months, whereby the Board will reimburse Mr. Clarke for his time 
atld expenses devoted to this project, including travel and related expenses 
incid ent to domestic meetings of the study group. It is understood that 
expenses incident to any travel to attend meetings abroad regarding this 
latter would be borne by the Department of State. 
' 
' I .. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary to the Board 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
1/4/73 
ADDRESS DFfiCIAL CORSESPDNOENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 4, 1973 
Bamerical International Financial Corporation 
Bank of America Center 
San Francisco, California 94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 21, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("BIFC"), to purchase 
a*id hold the shares of Bamerical Mortgage and Financial Company, ("BMFC"), 
Hato Rey, San Juan, Puerto Rico, at a cost of approximately $500,000, 
Provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of BMFC by BIFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in BMFC if BMFC at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if BMFC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Puerto Rico or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would noc be permissible to BIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BMFC as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BMFC 
be reported under Section 2j1.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BKFC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Ac t. 

Saraerical International 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
t W m 
completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
nac the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
anjc Oi San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association Memo-
randum or Association, and By-Laws of BMFC. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
s they apply to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association 
d its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

8 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
iNO* J 
1/4/73 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK IN DALLAS 
"Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ( 'grandfather" privileges) with respect to 
n°nbanlcing activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amendments 
t o the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding Company 
Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 1970" may 
c°ntinue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, in nonbanking 
activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on June 30, 1968 
on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of activities carried 
° n as a result of the acquisition by such company or subsidiary, pursuant 
a binding written contract entered Into on or before June 30, 1968, of 
Mother company engaged in such activities at the time of the acquisition), 
and has been continuously engaged in since June 30, 1968 (or such subsequent 
date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
o f Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
^termines that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentration 
of 
resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, 
°r unsound banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a 
bank with assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
Board is required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

-2-
8 9 
Notice of the Board's proposed review of the grandfather 
Privileges of First National Bank in Dallas, Dallas, Texas," and an 
°PPortunity for interested persons to submit comments and views or 
request a hearing has been given (37 F.R. 22414). The time for filing 
comments, views, and requests has expired, and all those received have 
b e e n considered by the Board in light of the factors set forth in 
5 4<a)(2) of the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following 
*ings. 
(ab< 
findings. First National Bank in Dallas, Dallas, Texas ("Registrant") 
>out $1.5 billion in deposits as of December 31, 1971), became a bank 
Elding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of the 1970 Amendments 
t o the Act, by virtue of Registrant's ownership of approximately 26 per 
Cent of Guaranty Bank, Dallas, Texas (formerly South Oak Cliff Bank), 
vhich shares Registrant acquired in 1966 in the regular course of collecting 
debt previously contracted. Guaranty Bank had total deposits of approxi-
ateiy £34 m i l l i o n a g o f J u n e 
1972, representing 0.5 per cent of the 
total commercial deposits in the Dallas banking market. The management, 
f 1 
nancial condition and prospects of Registrant and Guaranty Bank are 
regarded as satisfactory, and the Board has found no evidence of any un-
s°und banking practices. 
In addition, First National Bank in Dallas controls indirectly, 
thr 
0u8h First National Securities Company in Dallas, Registrant's trusteed 
affiliate, stock interests ranging between 11 per cent and 24.9 per cent 
of each of thirteen banks, all of which are located in the Dallas area. 
jju 
ese banks control total deposits of approximately $266 million. 
F i r s t National Bank in Dallas does not control a bank with assets in 
ce s s of $60 million but is itself such a bank (assets of $2.1 billion 
s °f December 31, 1970). 

-3-
9 0 
In addition to its commercial bank activities, Registrant, a 
national bank, has direct or indirect interests in a small business investment 
c°mpany, an Edge Act corporation, a data processing company, and a company 
engaged solely in the managing and servicing of buildings occupied or to 
b e occupied wholly or substantially by Registrant. It appears that Regis-
trant's interests in the small business investment company and the building 
Management company were acquired prior to June 30, 1968, and have been held 
Registrant continuously since that time; and these companies would be 
2/ 
e^igible for grandfather benefits. 
However, the activities of these com-
panies appear to be exempt, under provisions of § 4(c) of the Act, from 
fch 
e general prohibitions in § 4 against nonbanking interests of a bank holding 
c 
2/ 
0lnPany. On this basis, the Board finds that Registrant 
does not need 
to rely 
on grandfather privileges under the proviso in § 4(a)(2) of the 
in order to continue such nonbanking activities? and the question of 
of grandfather privileges is moot. 
Board of Governors, January 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
2*y 
_ 
—' Registrant's interests in the Edge Act corporation and data processing 
c<j>mpany were acquired after June 30, 1968, and these companies would not be 
igible for grandfather benefits. However, these companies may be eligible 
retention under other provisions of § 4 of the Act. 
November 30, 1972, the Board approved the application of First Inter-
z o n a l Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, to become a bank holding company 
trough the acquisition of the successor by merger to Registrant, and the 
ccessor by merger to Houston-Citizens Bank & Trust Company, Houston, Texas 
7 2 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1028). The decision reflected herein is limited 
0 the Board's review of the nonbanking activities of Registrant, and no 
ecision is made at this time with respect to the applicability of any of 
exemptions under the Act to First International Bancshares, Inc. 

9 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
1/4/73 
CENTURY BANCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Century Bancorp, Inc., Somerville, Massachusetts, has applied 
c 
0 r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 
U«S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 95 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of North Shore Bank and Banking Company, Lynn, Massachusetts ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
pe*sons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
® 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
U° n e 
been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
in iight of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank, Century Bank and Trust Company, 
g 
0rnervilie, Massachusetts ("Century Bank"), with deposits of $22.4 million, 
^Presenting approximately 0.2 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
in u 
1/ 
the State and in the Boston SMSA, 
and ranking thirtieth of fifty-six 
banking organizations in the Boston SMSA. 
Bank is a Morris Plan bank and it appears that State law authorizes 
i 
2 / 
t o accept demand deposits and make commercial loans."" 
Bank will pro-
such services either prior to or directly after consummation of the 
Pr°Posed acquisition. Bank has deposits of approximately $2.9 million, 
^ 
Banking deposit and market data are as of June 30, 1972. All data are 
^justed to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
he Board through November 30, 1972. 
—' See Massachusetts General Laws, Ch. 172, § 1. 

9 2 
-2-
rePresenting 0.036 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the 
B° S t o n SMSA, in which Bank ranks fifty-third of fifty-six banking organiza-
tions. The nearest existing office of Century Bank is located eleven miles 
fr 
0ln Bank and Century Bank's proposed branch office will be eight miles from 
B a n k. Although Bank and Century Bank are both located in the Boston SMSA, 
each bank is located in a separate county and is prohibited by State law from 
br 
anching into the county of the other organization. In light of the distances 
eParating banking offices, Massachusetts' restrictive branching laws, and 
Presence of numerous banking alternatives in the intervening areas, no 
Waningfui competition exists between Bank and Century Bank, and it appears 
Unlikely that any such competition would develop in the future. 
In addition, 
Pplicant's acquisition of Bank may have a procompetitive effect since Bank 
become an additional source of commercial loan services in its area. On 
the 
e basis of these facts, the Board concludes that consummation of the pro-
posal would not eliminate existing or potential competition, nor would it 
^ a V e a n adverse effect on any competing bank. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary bank, and Bank are con-
s e n t with approval of the application. While it appears that the banking 
ee<*s i n Ch e a r e a a r e being adequately met at present, considerations relating 
0 tbe convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend some weight 
toWard approval of the application, since Bank will become an alternative 
s°utce of commercial loan services. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Pr°Posed transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
S^°uld be approved. 

9 3 
-2-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
e r or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
Unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
p , 
eral Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 4, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
TSEAL] 
& 
Voting for this 
Oaane, Brimmer, and 
Governor Bucher. 
action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 

9 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEI-I 
Item No. 5 
1/4/73 
FIRST NATIONAL FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National Financial Corporation, Kalamazoo, Michigan, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
•^42(a) (3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of the successor by merger 
t o The Commercial Bank of Stambaugh, Stambaugh, Michigan ("Bank'1'). 
The 
bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means 
t o facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization is 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Pefsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
* 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
n°fle has been timely received. The Board has considered the application in 
^8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of 
$296.9 million, representing 1.2 per cent of the total commercial bank 
^posits in Michigan, and is the eleventh largest banking organization in 
the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to 
r®flect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
through July 31, 1972.) The acquisition of Bank (deposits of $5.3 million) 
w°uld increase Applicant's percentage share of the State's total deposits by 
•1 per cent, and Applicant would become the tenth largest banking organi-
zation in Michigan. Consummation of the acquisition would not result in a 

9 5 
-2-
significant increase in the concentration of banking resources in the 
State. 
Bank, which operates its main office in the city of Stambaugh 
and its only branch office in the city of Caspian, holds 20.3 per cent of 
the total commercial bank deposits in Iron County (the relevant market area), 
and is the smallest of four banks in the market. The three largest banks 
in the market hold, respectively, 31.2 per cent, 28.0 per cent and 20.5 
Per cent of the deposits. (Market data are as of December 31, 1971.) 
Applicant's closest subsidiary banking office is located in a separate 
market area, approximately 110 miles north of Bank. There is no present 
competition between any of Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank. Further-
more, it appears unlikely that any significant competition would develop 
between any of Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank in the future due to the 
distances separating the banking offices and the presence of numerous banking 
alternatives in the intervening areas. The Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposal would not eliminate existing or potential competition, nor 
would it have adverse effects on any competing bank. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. While it 
appears that major banking needs in the area are being met, considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are 
consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 

9 6 
-5-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
o r (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 4, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y 
Voting for this 
"aane, Brimmer, and 
Governor Bucher. 
action: 
Sheehan, 
Vice Chairman Robertson 
Absent and not voting: 
and Governors Mitchell, 
Chairman Burns and 

9 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o. 6 
1/4/73 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank holding 
COn»Pany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
o r the Board1s approval under $ 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to 
acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
hares) 0f the successor by merger to Houston Intercontinental National 
B a n k j H°ustons Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged 
a s no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of 
the v°ting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares 
Of fi-
ne successor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition 
0f tl*e shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
rs°ns to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
' of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
° n e 
been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
l n Xight of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization and third 
ar8est multi-bank holding company in Texas, controls ten banks with 
gate deposits of $1,188.4 million, representing approximately 4 per 
o t the total deposits of commercial banks in Texas. (All banking 
as of June 30, 1972, and reflect bank holding company acquisi-
l o n s approved through October 31, 1972.) Applicant is the third largest 
bankin 
i n8 organization in the Houston market with five subsidiary banks 
^ n g 11.2 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in that market. 

9 8 
- 2 -
C°nsummation of the proposal herein would increase insignificantly 
Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in the Houston area and its 
ranking among commercial banks in that market and in the State would be 
unchanged.*' 
Bank ($2.7 million of deposits) ranks 141st in deposits among 
commercial banks In the Houston market. Bank is located near the 
Houston Intercontinental Airport on the fringe of the Houston banking 
Market, approximately 20 miles north of Applicant's lead bank which is 
located in downtown Houston. Bank was organized in 1970 by officials and 
other individuals closely associated with Applicant and its lead bank and 
0tle or more officers or directors of Applicant or its lead bank have served 
°n Bank?
s board since it began operations in 1970. At the present time, 
tllGre exists a significant degree of common stock ownership among shareholders 
o f Bank and Applicant. In view of Bank's small size, its location on the 
outskirts of the Houston banking market, and the presence of a large number 
o f intervening banks, no meaningful competition exists between Bank and any 
Appiicantig gubsidlary banks. In the light of these factors, it appears 
Unlikely that any significant competition between Bank and any of Applicant's 
Subsidiary banks would develop in the future. Acquisition of Bank by Applicant 
not have any adverse effect on the concentration of banking resources 
i n the Houston area. 
?^~addition to its ten subsidiary banks, Applicant holds approximately 
0 Per cent of the outstanding voting shares of Commerce State Bank, Houstoi 
*e*as ($20 million of deposits). On December 21, 1972, the Board approved 
^PPlicant's application to acquire Gulf Coast National Bank, Houston, Texas 
million of deposits). Applicant's minority interest of 24.7 per 
C e n t of the voting shares of Kilgore National Bank, Kilgore, Texas, has 
recently been liquidated. 

-2-
9 9 
On the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation 
of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance 
any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business of 
banking, nor have any significant anticompetitive effect, in any area of 
t h e State. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant and 
i t s subsidiaries appear satisfactory and future prospects of all seem favorable. 
^ 
financial condition of Bank has deteriorated during the past year due 
t o its experiencing capital inadequacies and substantial losses on loans. 
Applicant has recently moved to provide additional personnel from its lead 
bank in order to strengthen Bank's managerial resources—especially in the 
*ceas of 
asset management and loan administration. In addition, Applicant 
h a s committed itself to add at least $350,000 of additional funds to Bank's 
CaPital accounts. This increased financial and managerial assistance from 
Applicant which would be made available to Bank upon consummation of the pro-
Posed transaction should enable Bank to remedy its present financial and 
Managerial problems. Although the banking needs of residents of the Houston 
area are adequately served by existing institutions, provision of Applicant's 
br°ad range of services through Bank should provide a more convenient source 
f°r these sophisticated services to the increasing number of customers locating 
Bank' s immediate service area. Addition of these services should contribute 
p08itively to the convenience and needs of the communities served by Bank 
and» these considerations are consistent x-/ith approval of this application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition vrould be 
i n the public interest and that the application should be approved. 

100 
-2-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tllG reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
t h i s 0r<*er or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
fi.. 
3 Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
t h e Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 4, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
FSEAL] 
Saan°tln8 f° r t h l s a c t i o n : 
V l c e Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Gov*6* R r l m r a e r> and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
vernor Bucher. 

101 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m No. 7 
1/4/73 
CAMBRIDGE AGENCY, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company, 
Acquisition of Insurance Agency, and Engaging 
De Novo in Insurance Agency Activities 
Cambridge Agency, Inc., Cambridge, Nebraska, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
-^42(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through acquisition of 
1 0 0 per cent of the voting shares of The Cambridge State Bank, Cambridge, 
Nebraska (''Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's approval 
under § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of the 
board's Regulation Y to acquire voting shares of Cambridge Insurance Agency, 
*Uc• > Cambridge, Nebraska ("Agency"). Applicant has also applied for 
Emission. itself, to engage de novo in the sale of credit life and credit 
accident and health insurance. 
Applicant states that Agency would engage in the activities of a 
&eneral insurance agency in a community of less than 5,000 persons and that 
applicant, itself, would engage de novo in the sale of credit life and credit 
accident and health insurance. Such activities have been determined by the 
Board to be closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)). 
Notice of receipt of these applications was published in the 
Pederal Register on November 4, 1972 (37 Federal Register 23593), and the 
time for filing comments and views has expired. 
One comment was received as 
discussed below. The Board has considered the applications in the light 
o f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the 
c°nsiderations specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 

25 
-2-
Applicant was organized to acquire the shares of Bank and Agency, 
and to engage d£ novo in the sale of credit life and credit accident and 
health insurance. Applicant's principal owners, as individuals, acquired 
bank's shares in July, 1971 and 81 per cent of Agency's shares in 
September, 1971. Subsequently, Agency acquired the Louis Shaffert Agency, 
* 
nc« The proposed transaction involves the transfer of these shares to 
Applicant in return for Applicant assuming the debts arising from its 
or8anizers' purchase of Bank shares and the Louis Shaffert Agency, Inc. 
Bank, the smaller of two banks located In Cambridge, a community 
o f approximately 1,400 persons, had deposits as of June 30, 1972 of 
aPproximately $2 million. Since the proposed acquisition of Bank essentially 
involves only a change from individual to corporate ownership, consummation 
the proposal will have no significant adverse effects on existing or 
potential competition. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial resources and 
pr°sPects of Applicant and Bank appear to be satisfactory and consistent with 
aPproval. Although Applicant will assume the debt incurred by its organizers 
when Bank and the Louis Shaffert Agency, Inc., were acquired, it appears that 
such debt may be adequately serviced without placing an undue strain on Bank 
earnings. Since Applicant's principals acquired control of Bank in July, 
^71, the bank has increased its banking hours, and has added services, such 
a s free checking accounts and passbook savings. While such services have 
already been introduced, approval of the application will assure continuation 
o f the new management of Bank. Accordingly, considerations relating to the 

1(33 
-3-
convenience and needs of the communities involved support approval of the 
transaction. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction would be in 
the public interest and that the application to acquire Bank should be 
approved. 
Agency, which was formed in September 1971, by Applicant's 
Principal owners, didn't begin business until January 1972, shortly after 
it had acquired an existing general insurance agency. Agency has its 
ice in Bank's building and its day-to-day operations are handled by two 
employees n o t associated with Bank. Agency is one of five general 
insurance agencies in Cambridge. 
Among the comments made by a competing insurance agency are that 
tho 
use of bank premises and personnel causes the creation of a "captive15 
relationship in the provision of insurance on property of a borrower and 
t^at the "bank" may split its overhead among various activities. Applicant 
states that Agency and Bank are separate corporations and are operated by 
different personnel. 
The Board notes the legislative policy stated in the National 
Bank Act that national banks in communities of less than 5,000 persons may 
S e U insurance (12 U.S.C. 92) and the provisions of section 106 of the Bank 
folding Company Act Amendments of 1970 which prohibit banks from tying an 
Gxtension of credit to the purchase of insurance from the bank or its bank 
h°lding company. The Board finds that approval of Applicant's proposals to 
acqiir(i Agency and to engage de novo in the sale of credit life and credit 
accident and health Insurance is unlikely to result in any undue concentration 
o f resourcesy decreased or unfair competition, unsound banking practices, or 

104 
- 2 -
°ther adverse effects on the public interest. Furthermore, in the Board's 
Judgment, the benefits to the public resulting from approval of these 
Proposals, including assurance of the continued operation of an alternative 
source of banking and insurance services, and the availability of credit 
•^•ife and credit accident and health insurance in connection with Bank's 
Ending transactions, lends substantial weight to approval. On the basis 
o f the foregoing and other facts reflected in the record, the balance of 
the public interest factors the Board must consider regarding the acquisition 
Agency and Applicant engaging de novo in the sale of credit life and 
credit accident and health insurance is favorable and the applications 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The acquisition of Bank shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
UT*less such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. The deter-
mination as to Agency's and Applicant's insurance agency activities is subject 
t o the Board's authority to require reports by, and make examinations of, 
holding companies and their subsidiaries and to require modification or 
termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries 
as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and 

105 
-5-
P U r p o s e s of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, 
o r to prevent evasions thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 4, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
ESEALJ 
Da V o t * n g 
action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
rv n e > dimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Bucher. 

10G 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
1/4/73 
HELDENFELS BROTHERS 
Order Approving Exemption of Nonbanking Activities 
of Bank Holding Company 
Heldenfels Brothers, Corpus Christi, Texas ("Applicant"), a 
Partnership and a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841), by virtue of ownership of 
52.6 p e r c e n t o f t h e v o t i n g shares of First National Bank of Rockport, 
R°ckport, Texas ("Bank"), has applied to the Board of Governors, pur-
Suant to § 4(d) of the Act, for an exemption from the prohibitions of 
s 4 (relating to nonbanking activities and acquisitions). 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Pec*eral Register on September 8, 1972 (34 Federal Register 18242). 
l m e for filing 
comments and views has expired and all received have 
^ e e n considered. No request for a hearing has been received. 
Section 4(d) of the Act provides that to the extent such 
action would not be substantially at variance with the purposes of the 
and subject to such conditions as the Board considers necessary 
to Protect the public interest, the Board may grant an exemption from 
th 
e Provisions of § 4 of the Act to certain one-bank holding companies 
ill order (1) 
to avoid disrupting business relationships that have 
e*isted over a long period of years without adversely affecting the banks 
Of 
communities involved, or (2) to avoid forced sales of small locally 
°^ned banks to purchasers not similarly representative of community 
interests, or (3) to allow retention of banks that are so small in 
N a t i o n 
to the holding company's total interests and so small in 
Elation to the banking market to be served as to minimize the likelihood 

107 
- 2 -
that the bank's powers to grant or deny credit may be influenced by a 
desire to further the holding company's other interests. 
The Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in the light of the factors set forth in § 4(d) of the Act and 
finds that: 
Heldenfels Brothers, a partnership with $10.7 million in assets 
a s of December 31, 1971, engages in the principal business activity of 
general contracting for highway construction. Applicant and its prede-
cessors have operated in Rockport, Texas (population 3,879), since 1917 
an<3 Applicant states that it still maintains an office and marine repair 
facility in Rockport on the site of the old World War I shipyard. The 
record shows that the first investment in Bank made by the Heldenfels 
family w a s i n the early 1920's by the father of the present partners of 
Applicant; he acquired a controlling interest of about 80 per cent in 
^auk, in 1935. A predecessor partnership to Applicant subsequently ac-
quired Bank's stock. Applicant now owns over 50 per cent of the stock 
°f Bank, and Applicant or its predecessors have held control of Bank 
c°ntinuously for the past 37 years. Furthermore, as of December 31, 
approximately one-quarter of Bank's total deposits represent 
GPosits on behalf of Applicant or its subsidiaries, or their directors 
° r officers. Bank appears to be well managed and in sound financial con-
dition and the record contains nothing to suggest that Applicant has 
abused its relationship with Bank or misused Bank's services for the 

108 
-2-
kenefit of Applicant's other interests. There is no reason to believe 
that permitting this relationship to continue indefinitely will adversely 
affect Bank or the communities involved. 
At the present time, controlling interest in Bank is owned by 
Applicant and residents of the. Rockport community and its environs. The 
ecord indicat es that as a result of an effort to diversify the stock 
°Wnership of Bank the number of stockholders, all of whom are residents 
the Rockport-Fulton area, has been increased from 45 in 1956 to 113 
(as of August 17, 1971). It also appears from the record that were Bank 
t o he sold, any prospective purchaser would not be as similarly repre-
Sentative of the community interest as is Applicant, in view of the 
history of Applicant and its predecessors, and their contributions to 
kL 
affairs of the Rockport community. The only offers to purchase 
c°ntrol of Bank in the past ten years have reportedly come from persons 
°utside the Rockport-Fulton-Corpus Christi area. Because of the 
nature of the Rockport community and the nature of Bank under present 
°^nership, it is the Board's view that forced sale of Bank would result 
control by interests not similarly representative of the Rockport 
immunity. 
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
record, the Board has concluded, pursuant to § 4(d)(1), that an 
e*emption is warranted to avoid disrupting a business relationship that 
^ a s existed over a long period of years without adversely affecting the 
hanks or communities involved; and pursuant to § 4(d)(2), that forced 

32 
-2-
sale of Bank would result in sale of Bank to purchasers not similarly 
representative of community interests. Accordingly, an exemption is 
granted; provided, however, that this determination is subject to revo-
cation if the facts upon which it is based change in any material 
respect, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 5, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action; Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting; Chairman Burns and 
Governor Bucher. 

110 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 9 
1/4/73 
EQUITABLE BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Equitable Bancorporation, Baltimore, Maryland, a bank holding 
c°nipany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for 
0 r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
t o acquire not less than 41 per cent of the voting shares of University 
^tional Bank, Rockville, Maryland. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for Interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3 ( b) Of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
n d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in i 
ight of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
Applicant, with three subsidiary banks holding aggregate 
GP°sits of $731.2 million, is the largest bank holding company and 
Gc°nd largest banking organization in Maryland with 12.3 per cent of 
the 
commercial deposits in the State. (All banking data are as of 
Member 31, 1971, unless otherwise indicated, and reflect bank holding 
mPany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
Member 30, 1972.) Acquisition of Bank ($56.7 million in deposits) 
0ul<* increase Applicant's share of Statewide deposits by only 1.0 per 
Cent «nj 
and would leave Applicant as the second ranking banking organization 
Maryland. Consummation of the transaction would not result in a sig-
ificant increase in the concentration of banking resources in Maryland. 

Ill 
-2-
Bank is the eighth largest of 23 banking organizations serving 
the Maryland portion of the Washington, D. C., SMSA (which portion ap-
proximates the relevant banking market), holding about 3.2 per cent of 
market deposits (as of June 30, 1970). This proposal would represent 
Applicant's initial entry into Montgomery County. Some competition be-
tv>een Applicant's offices in Prince George's County and Bank would be 
eUminated a s Applicant's offices in Laurel, Seabrook, and Greenbelt are 
approximately 10, 8, and 3 miles, respectively, distant from Bank's 
P a rk office. However, the amount of competition is not sub-
stantial> since Applicant's market share is only 2.9 per cent and 
Bank's 3„2 per cent. In view of this fact and the number of banking 
alternatives available, it appears that only a small amount of competition 
w°uld be eliminated by consummation of this proposal. Moreover, it ap-
pears unlikely that meaningful competition would develop in the future in 
fcH 
e light of the fact that the population per banking office in the 
relevant market approximates the State-wide figure despite the market's 
much more rapid population growth during the 1960's, and the fact that 
applications to form branches in the area have been denied by bank 
re8ulatory agencies on the ground that the area is being adequately 
Served. it does not appear, therefore, that significant competition 
W° U l d b e eliminated or significant potential competition foreclosed by 
COr*summation of Applicant's proposal, or that there would be undue ad-
VGrse effects on any bank in the area involved. 

112 
-2-
Tlie financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiaries and Bank are all regarded as generally satis-
factory and consistent with approval of the application. It appears that 
the banking needs of the residents of the market area are being met; 
owever, customers of Bank should benefit from the higher lending limits 
additional services that Applicant will be able to provide, and this 
increase in the competitive capacity of Bank would be in the public 
interest. Accordingly, convenience and needs considerations are con-
sistent with approval of the application. It Is the Board's judgment 
fchat the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective January 5, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
I/~Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Bucher. 

• n g 
B D A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
1 1 3 
Item No. 10 
1/4/73 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 4, 1973 
M. F. Parker 
^resident 
Pacific Bancorporation 
p- 0. Box 1807^ 
takersfield, California 
933C3 
°ear Mr. Parker: 
The Beard has considered the proposal of Pacific Bancorporation 
("PBC"). as described in a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco dated September 12, 1972 (which makes reference to an earlier 
letter de ted July 12, 3.972), to acquire shares of a newly-organized corpor-
ation to which will be transferred the assets and liabilities of a division 
PBC known as Jacobs on. Products, v/hich is engaged in the manufacture of 
accessories for pressing devices and sale of such products to distributors, 
commercial laundries,, and clothing manufacturers. Additional information, 
i n the form of PRC's most recent annual report to the Board, was received 
bY the Board on November 22, 1972. 
On the basis of information in our records, it appears that PBO 
(foi rr.erly "Parker Resources, Inc.") acquired control of Community National 
Bank, Bakersfield, California, in June, 1969, and became a bank holding 
company with respect to that bank on December 31, 3 970, as a result of 
enactment of the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. At the 
Present time, PBC owns approximately 81 per cent of the shares of that bank 
and does not own shares of any other bank. 
With respect zo nonbanking activities, it appears that PBC operates 
in addition to the Jaccbson Products division, a real estate division that 
owns a shopping center arvd other commercial properties, PBC's only other 
nonbanking activities appear to be those performed by Installment Life 
Insurance and Disability Protection Company, a wholly-owned PBC subsidiary, 
v/hich is a .limited ier:ai reserve life insurance company primarily engaged 
in reinsuring credit life insurance, written by another company, for bank 
borrowers. PBC also owns all the shares of an inactive corporation known 
as PBC Investment Company, which was established purportedly to reserve a 
corporate name for PBC. 

Ill 
M. F. Parker 
It is the Board's understanding that PBC intends to remain a bank 
folding company beyond 1931, and that PBC's proposal to incorporate the 
Jacobson Products division and subsequently sell 10 per cent of the shares 
o f the new company to Sidney Jacobson represents an initial step looking 
toward complete divestiture by PBG of Jacobson Products. 
5 
On the basis of the facts presented, the Board approves PBC's 
Proposal. In approving the request, the Board expects that PBC will make 
every effort to divest promptly the shares of the newly-organized company. 
Advice of both consummation of the proposal and subsequent divestiture of 
the shares should be given promptly to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco. 
It is noted that, at one time, PBC considered transferring the 
assets and liabilities of the Jacobson Products division to PBC Investment 
Company and, in that connection, expressed the belief that consummation 
°f that proposal did not require the approval of the Board, That propo-
sal has been abandoned. However, the Board wishes to make clear that 
the, procedures of section 2.25.4(d) of Regulation Y must be followed 
with respect to any future proposal by PBC to activate PBC Investment 
Company by transferring to it activities in which PBC is permitted to 
Engage until 1981 by virtue of section 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
Presentation to the Board of PBC's September 12 proposal was 
delayed pending receipt of additional information. The staff found it 
necessary, in connection with the proposal, to examine PBC's most recent 
annual report to the Board, which was not received by the Board until 
November 22, 1972. The Board regrets the delay in considering the 
Proposal. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
HAMILTON BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Item No. 
1/4/73 
Hamilton Bancshares, Inc., Chattanooga, Tennessee, a bank 
h°ldtng company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
t_ 
a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.s.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 50.06 per cent or more of the 
Voting shares of Hardeman County Savings Bank, Bolivar, Tennessee 
("Bank"). 
Notice of the application affording opportunity for in-
vested persons to submit comments and views has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
a n d 
views has expired and none have been timely received. The 
B°ard has considered the application in the light of the factors 
8 e t forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization and 
b a nk holding company in the State, controls 11 banks with aggregate 
posits of approximately $521 million representing about 6 per 
C e n t of total deposits of commercial banks in Tennessee. (All 
bQnking data are as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect 
hiding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
trough October 31, 1972.) Acquisition of Bank (deposits of about 
million) would add only .2 of one percentage point to 
share of Statewide deposits and would not alter 
ApPiicant's ranking among the State's banking organizations and 
holding companies. 

JLlti 
-2-
Bank is the largest of five banking organizations competing 
in the Hardeman County market and holds about 46 per cent of the total 
commercial bank deposits therein. The nearest banking subsidiary of 
APPlicant to Bank is located approximately 185 miles east of Bank, and 
neither it nor any of Applicant's other subsidiary banks compete with 
n k to any significant extent, primarily due to the distances involved 
N o r does it appear likely that significant competition would develop 
i n the future in view of the distances separating Bank and Applicant's 
Subsidiaries, the presence of numerous banks in the intervening areas, 
a n d Tennessee's restrictive branching laws. Furthermore, it appears 
U nUkely that Applicant would establish a new bank in Hardeman County, 
Sin 
the area is unattractive for de novo entry with both the popu-
lation to banking office ratio and the per capita income of the area 
k l n 8 considerably lower than averages for the State. Even though 
Bank ia the largest bank in the market, its total deposits are less 
tfcan $15 
million, and it does not appear that its acquisition by 
Applicant would place Bank in a dominant competitive position nor 
Aversely affect the other competing banks in the area. On the basis 
o f the facts of record, the Board concludes that competitive consider-
ations are consistent with approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
tosources and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks 
Bank are generally satisfactory and consistent with approval 
the application. Considerations relating to the convenience 

-2-
117 
and needs of the community to be served are also consistent with 
aPproval of the application. 
In connection with its review of the proposal herein, the 
Board1s attention has been called to the fact that Applicant has 
followed a practice of acquiring certain banks that are members of 
Federal Reserve System and thereafter systematically withdrawing 
those banks from membership in the System. 
Six of Applicant's present 
H subsidiary banks are not now members of the System, and three of 
those six were converted to nonncmber status after having been 
acquired by Applicant. 
Applicant now proposes to convert another of 
its subsidiaries to nonmember status within a month. Although the 
banlc that is the subject of the present application is not now a 
member of the System and thus a consideration of the practice previously 
followed by Applicant with respect to its other subsidiary banks is 
not directly before the Board, the Board is concerned that large 
b ank holding companies such as this one should shun the public 
responsibilities that large banks or large families of banks have 
t° be a part of and support the policies of the nation's central 
bank. Such a practice (if permitted to go unchecked) could significantly 
diminish the effectiveness of one of the major tools of the Board 
in administering monetary policy, i.e., the setting of reserve 
requirements for member banks of the System. 
If large banks or the 
Members of a large family of banks shirk this public responsibility, 

118 
-2-
fche task of implementing monetary policy becomes more difficult 
and one-sided in its impact on the banking system as a x^hole. 
Late last year the Board amended its Regulation D 
S°verning reserve requirements in order to substantially remove 
d * 
lscrimination in the application of such requirements among member 
hanks that were similarly situated as to size and access to national 
money markets. Another type of discrimination has become of signifi-
cant importance, namely, between branching systems of member banks and 
hold ing company families. The reserve requirements of the former 
a r e based on the aggregate of the branching banks' deposits wherever 
located. For holding companies, on the other hand, deposits are 
fr 
actioned according to the size of each separate unit or office. 
Th' 
is results in lower requirements for a banking entity, the multiple 
h 
' holding company, which is essentially comparable and competitive 
t?ith branching systems. 
When the holding company amendments were considered in 1970 
th 
n G Board advised the Congress it did not believe that, as a matter 
lax;, membership in the Federal Reserve System should be required 
the subsidiary banks of a holding company. In the light of 
developments in the past two years and the rapid spread of holding 
c°mpany form of banking organization in many States, the merit of 
that recommendation should be re-examined and the Board is in the 
Process of doing so. 

-2-
Nonetheless, on the basis of the facts in this case, and in 
^ight of the factors set forth in the Act, it is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed acquisition should be approved. The transaction 
shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day 
following the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three 
months after the effective date of this Order unless such period is 
G*tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,1/ effective January 5, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
G°ve.rnor Mitchell. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THIRD NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Item No. 
1/4/73 
Third National Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, a 
banlc holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
G°mpany Act, has applied for the Board's approval under 
5 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of 
voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the 
successor by merger to the First National Bank of Lawrenceburg, 
lawrenceburg, Tennessee ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank 
t 0 be merged has no significance except as a means to 
Militate acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. There-
fore> the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor 
kank is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of shares 
o f Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
Interested persons to submit comments and viexjs, has been 
Siven in accordance with 5 3(b) of the Act. The time for 
filing comments and views has expired, and none has been 
tlnely received. The Board has considered the application 
i n light of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

liil 
-2-
Applicant is the fourth largest banking organization 
in Tennessee. It controls one bank, Third National Bank in 
Nashville, with deposits of $540 million, representing 6 per 
c^nt of total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1971.) Approval of this 
aPplication, which would increase Applicant's control of 
State deposits by less than .5 per cent, would not have an 
adverse effect on the concentration of banking resources in 
Tennessee.-^ 
Bank is the largest of five banks in the Lawrence 
County banking market. It has deposits of $19.6 million and 
controls approximately 37.8 per cent of the commercial bank 
deposits in that market. The nearest banking office of Third 
National Bank is in Nashville, approximately 98 miles northeast 
of Lawrenceburg. Third National Bank has no offices that compete 
with Bank, which derives less than 1 per cent of its loans and 
deposits from Davidson County, the banking market of Third 
National Bank. Consummation of the proposed transaction would 
not, therefore, result in the elimination of any significant 
listing competition. Because of the distance separating Third 
National Bank and Bank, the numerous intervening banks, and the 
home county branching limitation under Tennessee law, there is 
T T l n a separate application approved by the Board of Governors 
on November 22, 1972, Applicant was granted permission to acquire 
all of the voting shares of the successor by merger to the Merchants 
Bank, Cleveland, Tennessee. Affiliation of both banks would increase 
Applicant's share of the total commercial bank deposits in Tennessee 
only to 6.81 per cent. 

12 k 
-3-
iittle likelihood of the development of future competition. More-
0Ver, the possibility of future competition through de novo entry 
ky Appiicant i8 slight. Lawrence County has experienced minimal 
Population grox^th in the past decade and is not an attractive 
Market for de novo entry. Per capita personal income has increased 
substantially since 1965 but remains well below State and national 
levels. Accordingly, competitive considerations are consistent 
wi-th approval of the application.. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, 
banking subsidiaries and Bank are considered generally 
Satisfactory. The future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary 
banks and Bank are regarded as good. Considerations relating 
t o the convenience and needs of the community are consistent 
with, and provide some support for, approval of the application, 
applicant proposes to offer expanded and improved banking services, 
its is expected that the community will benefit. It is the 
board's judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction 
in the public interest and that the application should be 
aPProved, 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
^o** the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°Osummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 

4-
the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Sank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governorsy?/ effective January 5, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
,— 
.• • • 
"T 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary o4. th* Board 
y Voting for this action; Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
^airman Burns and Governor Bucher. 

Item No. 13 
UNITED STATES OF Ai-ZERICA 
1/4/73 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF TIIE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of Petition by 
National Association of Insurance 
A2ents, Inc., 
a stay of an Interpretation of 
pi^ *',oard olr Governors of Section 
Jj ?' 4f aH3) of Regulation Y 
° 
to insurance agency 
activities 
ORDER DENYING PETITION FOR STAY 
The National Association of Insurance Agents, Inc. ("MIA1*) , has 
^iied a Petition requesting the Board to stay, pending judicial review, 
the effectiveness of the Board's Interpretation (12 CFR 225.128) of section 
225.4(a)(9) of Regulation Y relating to insurance agency activities. The 
interpretation was issued by the Board on August 31, 1972 and published in 
3 7 Federal Register 13520-18521 on September 13, 1972. On October 5, 197?., 
^ A petitioned the United States Court of Appeals for the District of 
Columbia i:o set aside tha Interpretation. 
The allegations and arguments presented in NAIA's Petition to the 
have been considered by the Board in the light of fairness to perrons 
10 ™aV ba affected by section 225.4(a)(9) of Regulation Y and the Interpre-
t^ j 
. 
J-0ri in question or by the proposed stay; and the Board has weighed the 
Public ^ntcre.Mt considerations. 

125 
-2-
The Board has reviewed section 225.4(a)(9) of Regulation Y and 
^ e Board's published Interpretation thereof, and the procedures used in 
Promulgating the Regulation and the Interpretation; and has concluded that 
^ e Regulation and the Interpretation are in the public interest and were 
adopted in accordance with the provisions of the statute and all require-
ments of due process. In the Board's judgment, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that it is likely to prevail or. the merits in Its court suit. 
The Petition alleges that NAIA will suffer irreparable harm if 
stay is denied and Petitioner should prevail in court. The Board finds 
that the Interpretation does not constitute the approval of any application 
by a bank holding company to engage in insurance agency activities, NAIA 
ar/J its members may objcct to any application by a tank holding company to 
engage in insurance a^ercy activities and, to the extent that they are 
aggrieved parties under section 105 of the Bank Holding Company Act Amend-
ments of 1970, they may seek court review of any Board order approving a 
W d i n g company application over their objections. In view of these 
circumstances and because NAIA has failed to show that it or its members 
would suffer irreparable harm in the absence of a stay, the Board concludes 
that the interpretation itself and its continued effectiveness are net likel 
to cause any irreparable harm tc NAIA or its members. 
The Board concludes that justice does riot require a stay and 
^ a t denial of the requested stay is in the public interest. 

r>i ^ 
It is hereby ordered, That the Petition by li\IA for stay of the 
interpretation of section 225.4(a)(9) of Regulation Y relating to insurance 
agency activities is denied. 
If 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 4, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSliAL] 
1/ Vowrj'l^or" 
ion: Vi es-. Chaiiasc. Rcber r.son 
Cow.rncvs Misir'hsXl, 
Brit-ner. ahd Sheehau. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns? and 
G^esrior Bucher. 
