MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 17, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
Required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
ederal Reserve Act entries covering the items in this set of 
minutes commencing on the pages and dealing with the subjects 
referred to below: 
Pages 4 and 16 
Amendments to Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits. 
Page 18 
Disapproval of proposed reduction 
in discount rate at Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston. 

4053 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 17, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
t"! is 
°n of The Northern Trust International Banking Corporation, New York, 
e W York> to acquire shares of Nortrust International Finance (Hong Kong) 
1/ Did not attend morning session; withdrew from afternoon session 
a t point indicated in minutes. 

1054 
10/17/73 
-2-
Limited, Hong Kong. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Security 
Pacific Overseas Corporation, Los Angeles, California, to acquire 
shares of Security Pacific Australia Limited, Sydney, Australia. 
A °opy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its 
denial, on September 27, 1973, of the application of Suburban 
Bancorporation, Hyattsville, Maryland, to acquire shares of Farmers 
and Mechanics National Bank, Frederick, Maryland. A copy is attached 
as IiLgm No. 3. (The Board decided not to insert in the order an 
additional paragraph suggested in a memorandum of October 16, 1973, 
from the Legal Division.) 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Office of 
Ml n 
agement and Budget concurring with a Treasury Department draft 
report recommending enactment of S. 1933, a bill to permit national 
kanks to underwrite and deal in certain revenue bonds issued by State 
a n d local governments. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
^lab 
ama Bancshares, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of 
e successor by merger to The Selma National Bank, Selma, Alabama, 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
ls attached as Item No. 5. 

4055 
10/17/73 
-3-
At its meeting on August 31, 1973, the Board denied the appli-
cations by Diversified Mountaineer Corporation, Charleston, West 
Virginia, to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
shares of The First National Bank of South Charleston, South Charleston, 
West Virginia, and to retain its industrial banking and insurance 
activities. Prior to issuance by the Board of an order reflecting 
that decision, the applicant requested permission to withdraw the 
applications. Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation in a memorandum of October 11, 1973, the Board 
today granted the applicant's request. A copy of the letter sent to 
t h e Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond in this connection is attached 
a s Itgn No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Central 
Bancompany, Jefferson City, Missouri, to acquire shares of The Guaranty 
Tru t-
st Company of Missouri and the assets and business of Harrison L. 
Winter and Associates, both of Clayton, Missouri, and thereby to engage 
in 
ne activities of a trust company. The Board authorized issuance 
o f an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Legal Division in a 
Memorandum of October 16, 1973, the Board authorized issuance of an 
order f 
tor a public hearing with respect to the application of Mercantile 
ancorporation, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of Lewis & 

40SH 
10/17/73 
-4-
Clark State Bank of St. Louis County, St. Louis County, Missouri. The 
hearing was required because the State bank supervisor had expressed 
his disapproval of the application to the Board in writing. A copy 
°f the order is attached as Item No. 8. A letter was sent to the 
applicant in the form attached as Item No. 9. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Regulation Q. Recent legislation required Federal authorities 
having regulatory jurisdiction over depository-type institutions to 
establish ceiling rates of interest on all time deposits in denomi-
nations of less than $100,000. This requirement was of special 
Slgnificance with respect to four-year certificates of deposit in 
^nominations of at least $1,000 but less than $100,000--a new 
Category of savings instrument that depository-type institutions had 
b e e n Permitted to issue free of interest rate ceilings since July 5, 
Xq-7-i • Preparatory to implementation of the new legislation, a series 
of 
Memoranda from the Division of Research and Statistics had analyzed 
ePosit flows, suggested possible ceiling rate structures, reported 
n the tenor of pertinent comments at meetings of the Interagency 
°°rdinating Committee on Bank Regulation, and summarized the responses 
the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks to a solicitation of 
their views. 

4057 
10/17/73 
-5-
At its meetings on October 12 and 15, 1973, the Board had 
discussed the various issues involved, and, with a memorandum of 
October 16, the Legal Division submitted a draft of implementing 
amendments to Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, reflecting the 
consensus of those discussions. 
At today's meeting, the Board reviewed the matter further, 
anticipation of a final discussion of the issues by the Coordinating 
Committee later this morning. In essence, the Board advocated (1) 
imposing a specific interest rate limitation on all CD's of less 
than $100,000 by setting a maximum rate of interest on four-year 
C D s; (2) removing the existing provision limiting the issuance of 
four-year CD's to 5 per cent of a member bank's total time and savings 
^ eposits; (3) retaining the $1,000 minimum denomination requirement 
f o f 
r four-year CD's bearing interest in excess of 6-1/2 per cent; and 
setting the effective date as November 1, 1973, and urging member 
banks, during the interim, to refrain from making new offerings of 
time deposits or initiating promotional programs relating to time 
dePosits with terms not in conformity with the interest rate limita-
tion established by this amendment. 
It was agreed that at the meeting of the Coordinating 
Committee, Governor Mitchell would seek agreement by the other agencies 
Solved to ceiling rates of interest on the four-year certificates 
of 7_-j n 
'^ per cent for banks and 7-1/2 per cent for thrift institutions. 

4058 
10/17/73 
-6-
was understood that subsequent to the meeting of the Coordinating 
Committee, the Board would consider the proposals further at a session 
later today. 
Mrs. Heller and Messrs, Oehmann, Ettin, Reynolds, Leavitt, 
and Lyon then returned to the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data Processing 
Other supporting staff 
Release of bank data. In a memorandum dated September 28, 
^73, the Board's Committee on Financial Statistics reviewed the 
various steps through which the Board, the Comptroller of the Currency, 
a n d t*le Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had increasingly made 
available to the public in recent years information from call reports 
a n d other reports submitted by banks. The several agencies had decided 
earlier this year to make available to the public full call data and 
income report data for individual banks for December 1972 and later 
dates. 
For reasons stated in the memorandum, the Committee recommended 
a data from detailed schedules printed on the back of the call form 
made available to the public upon request in magnetic tape form for 
a l 1 semiannual call dates from June 1960 through June 1972; the Committee 

4 0 5 3 
10/17/73 
-7-
Proposed, however, that data from reports of income be made avail-
able only from December 1971 forward. The Committee recommended 
that the Board provide the magnetic tape service for all three agencies, 
with the tapes to be sold at $50 each to recover marginal costs. 
CoPies of the reports themselves would be released directly by the 
appropriate agency. If the Board approved these recommendations, 
x t was expected that the staffs of the other two agencies would 
recommend similar action to their principals. 
Discussion indicated some reservations regarding the retro-
activity feature, contemplating release of information that banks 
h A 
ad submitted some years ago with no expectation that it would be 
made public. Concern was expressed also because banks might be taken 
b y SurPrise upon learning that their reports would be released. 
sPonses indicated that there probably would be relatively little 
Ejection to release of the historical information from the back of 
the 
call report. Banks were more sensitive toward the confidential 
nature of their income reports, and these would be released for only 
0tlG adc*itional year. The element of surprise could be minimized by 
taking the announcement of intended release in the Federal Reserve 
ulletin with some lead time--perhaps sixty days. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board unanimously 
the Committee's recommendations, with the understanding that, 

40(10 
10/17/73 
-8-
after the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation had taken action to permit parallel release, announce-
m e n t o f the intended release of the data would be published in the 
Federal Reserve Bulletin about sixty days in advance of the date when 
the information would be made available to the public. 
Mortgage guaranty insurance. In a memorandum dated October 10, 
l973, the Legal Division referred to comments received in response 
to the Board's notice of proposed rule making with respect to the 
activity of underwriting real estate mortgage guaranty insurance 
under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. Comments had 
included a number of requests for a hearing, and two commenters had 
requested that the Board defer any action on the activity pending 
completion of a study of the private mortgage insurance industry by 
the Federal National Mortgage Association. The Division recommended 
at the Board not defer action, but that it schedule an informal 
Scaring on the proposed rule making and defer decision regarding a 
f°rmal hearing on pending individual applications until after completion 
of 
ne rule-making procedure. A draft notice of hearing was attached. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendations. Attached 
U n d e r Item No. 10 are copies of the notice and related press release. 
Armored car and courier services. In June 1972 the Board had 
eceived the report and recommendations of the hearing officer appointed 

4061 
10/17/73 
-9-
by the Board to conduct proceedings related to the proposed amendment 
of Regulation Y to permit bank holding companies to engage in armored 
car or courier services. Summaries of the issues and related recom-
mendations were submitted by the Division of Research and Statistics 
in a memorandum of September 5, 1973, and by the Legal Division in a 
memorandum of October 5, 1973. 
Discussion at today's meeting reflected acceptance in principle 
by the Board of the following positions advocated by the Legal Division: 
(1) that certain courier activities be found to be closely related to 
banking and added to the list of permissible activities for bank 
holding companies; and (2) that no action be taken at the present time 
with respect to armored car services in view of the relatively sparse 
record on this issue. At the conclusion of the discussion, it was 
understood that the staff would draft implementing documents for the 
Board's consideration reflecting the views expressed during the meeting. 
The Board agreed that further oral argument was not necessary 
and that therefore several requests that had been received for such 
a proceeding should be denied<, A request had also been received that 
the record regarding the question of courier service as a permissible 
activity should include the Board's prior determination that two bank 
holding companies operating courier service subsidiaries were entitled 
to do so under the "grandfather" provisions of the Bank Holding Company 

4062 
10/17/73 
-10-
Act. (This question had arisen earlier this year in connection with 
a contract for courier services awarded by the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Richmond.) The Board agreed that the incident was not relevant 
to the question of permissibility and therefore that such request 
also should be denied. 
Connecticut BancFederation. In a memorandum dated October 10, 
l973> the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Division of 
^search and Statistics recommended approval of the application of 
Connecticut BancFederation, Inc., New Britain, Connecticut, to 
become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of New 
Britain Bank and Trust Company, New Britain; The Guaranty Bank and 
T r u s t Company, Hartford; and The Terryville Trust Company, Terryville, 
all * 
Connecticut. However, the Divisions recommended that approval 
b e conditioned on the merger of the three banks into a single bank 
W l th headquarters in Hartford, which would remove home office protec-
tion f r o m o n e eommunity in Connecticut (Plymouth) and contribute to 
the 
eventual removal of home office protection from a second (New 
Britain). 
In a memorandum dated October 16, 1973, the Legal Division 
xPressed the view that the Board lacked authority to impose a condi-
tion ut, 
Pon approval of an application if the Board would not deny the 
PPlication, absent the condition. The Division recommended that the 

4063 
10/17/73 
-li-
B°ard approve the application of Connecticut BancFederation without 
condition, but in its approval order strongly suggest the desirability 
of mergers. 
Discussion indicated agreement with the Legal Division's 
Position. The application was therefore unanimously approved, 
Without condition. It was understood that an implementing order 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Statistical reporting burdens. A report by a Task Force on 
t h G Alleviation of Statistical Reporting Burdens had been evaluated 
b y t h e staff and reviewed by the Committee on Financial Statistics. 
In 
a memorandum dated September 28, 1973, the Committee made a number 
o f recommendations with respect to the disposition of individual 
statistical reports. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed agreement with respect 
to the Committee's recommendations calling for (a) sharp reduction in 
detail collected and reduced frequency from monthly to quarterly for 
^ 584a, Dealer Cost Ratios and Maturities on Auto Instalment Loans; 
reference to the Legal Division of the question whether FR 220 
a n d F R 220a, Report of an Affiliate, might be eliminated, with the 
nderstanding that the reports would be discontinued if the Division 
lOUnrl 
n o reason to the contrary; and (c) continuation, contingent on 
rGceipt of a written statement of need by the Trading Desk, of 

4064 
10/17/73 
-12-
Schedule C, Dealer Transactions in U.S. Government and Agency Secu-
rities and Negotiable CD's (a letter from the Trading Desk expressing 
a need for the statement had been received). Action on other recom-
mendations of the Committee was deferred. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room 
a t 2:15 p.m. with Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
trimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland present and the following staff 
members in attendance: 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary-
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Director for Management, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Slocum, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Tuttle, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Pierce, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 

10/17/73 
-13-
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Guinter, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Watt, Assistant Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Mcintosh, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Foreign currency time deposits. Bank of America National Trust 
a n d Savings Association, San Francisco, California, had requested the 
advice of the Board's staff regarding a proposed program of offering 
time deposits denominated in foreign currencies at its offices in 
the United States. The proposal was analyzed in staff memoranda dated 
October 12 and 15, 1973, and in a letter dated October 15 from Presi-
d e n t Hayes of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
After discussion of various aspects of the proposal, it was 
Governor Mitchell abstaining, that a letter should be sent 
to u ank of America to the effect that the Board did not look with 
f 
upon the proposal at the present time. It was understood that 
Such 
1 
a letter would be drafted for clearance by Chairman Burns and 
G°Vernor Brimmer. A letter was subsequently transmitted in the form 
attached as Item No. 11. 

4 066 
10/17/73 
-14-
Federal funds transactions. The staff of the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board had requested the Board's views regarding a plan 
under which the Federal Home Loan Banks would invest in the Federal 
funds market on behalf of member associations. Related considerations 
were discussed in two memoranda dated September 20, 1973, from research 
staff. The Board discussed the question on September 27; additional 
^formation supplied by the Division of Research and Statistics in a 
memorandum of October 2 and successive drafts of a letter to the 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board were the basis for discussions on 
October 4 and 9. At today's meeting, the Board considered a revised 
dr*ft of letter, dated October 10, 1973. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed agreement on further 
revisions in the draft letter, after which the letter was unanimously 
p r o v e d in the form attached as Item No. 12. 
Computer hardware. Earlier this year, the Board had approved 
a Proposal for installing a new IBM 370 Model 168 computer in the 
xn Building at the time that the Data Center was moved into that 
uHding, i n a memorandum dated September 12, 1973, the Division of 
ata Processing cited circumstances and presented analyses in support 
of if-o 
recommendation that a major portion of the new system be purchased 
rather than rented. The purchase cost would be $4,099,758. Concurrence 
in 
n e recommendation was expressed by Mr. Kakalec in a memorandum of 
ePtember 13 and by Governor Holland in a memorandum of September 27. 

401? 
IO/17/73 
-15-
During discussion at today's meeting, Governor Brimmer 
observed that the proposal contemplated that in addition to the 
equipment proposed to be purchased, the Board's installation would 
continue to include some rented equipment. He expressed the view 
that costs might be minimized by having all equipment either purchased 
°r rented. The discussion also explored the practices of other 
Government agencies in acquiring data processing equipment and the 
Probable length of time before advances in technology might make 
the equipment to be purchased obsolete. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Board unanimously 
•proved the proposed purchase. 
Coin wrapping service. At its meeting on October 9, 1973, 
the Board discussed recommendations made by the Executive Committee 
° n C o st Improvement in a memorandum of October 5 for modification 
the present policy with respect to coin wrapping services provided 
y the Federal Reserve Banks. Action was deferred pending conversa-
n s with Reserve Bank Presidents, which had subsequently taken place. 
The Committee had recommended that the outstanding letter of 
nstruction to the Reserve Banks be modified to provide for reexamina-
tio 
n of coin wrapping charges with the aim of recovering full costs; 
to 1 
a low for the continuance of coin wrapping service where provided 
t Present; to limit extension of service in the absence of compelling 

4 0 i > S 
10/17/73 
-16-
member bank relations problems; and to rescind the provision 
requiring uniform coin wrapping service. Major considerations under-
lying the Committee's recommendations were the capital outlay and 
operating costs that would be required if Districts that did not now 
wrap coin began to provide that service, and the savings that would 
he realized if Districts that now wrapped coin began to recover their 
full costs. A draft letter was attached to the October 5 memorandum. 
Discussion brought out that the Committee's recommendation, 
essence, contemplated that by charging banks for the full cost 
the service, the Federal Reserve System could eventually withdraw 
from coin wrapping operations, and thus uniformity among Federal 
Reserve Districts would be achieved through a phase-out of the service. 
A majority of the Board favored that position. Governors Mitchell, 
°aane, and Brimmer preferred that the Board's present policy on coin 
Wrapping services be continued. 
After revisions to reflect the tenor of discussion, the 
letter was approved in the form attached as Item No. 13, Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, and Brimmer dissenting. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Regulation Q. The Board resumed the discussion begun this 
m°rning of proposed amendments to Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, 
to "f 
Element new legislation requiring the establishment of interest 

40G9 
10/17/73 
-17-
rate ceilings that may be paid by member banks on all time deposits 
in denominations of less than $100,000. A draft press release had 
now been distributed. 
During discussion, Governor Mitchell described the salient 
views expressed at the meeting of the Interagency Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation that he had attended subsequent to the 
corning session of the meeting of the Board. 
The Board then unanimously approved amendments to Regula-
tion Q, effective November 1, 1973, (1) setting a ceiling rate of 
1nterest of 7-1/4 per cent payable by member banks on consumer-type 
time deposits with a maturity of four years or more and a minimum 
^nomination of $1,000, and (2) removing the existing provision 
limiting issuance of four-year certificates to 5 per cent of a member 
bank's total time and savings deposits. The Board also unanimously 
•S££royed, with minor changes, the press release announcing adoption 
these amendments. It was understood that the press release would 
b * 
issued later today, after the other interested agencies had been 
informed of the Board's action. A copy of the press release is 
attached under Item No. 14, along with a copy of the amendments. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, 
^Hison, Bernard, Melnicoff, Axilrod, Coyne, and O'Brien. 

4070 
10/17/73 
-18-
Discount rate. On October 15, 1973, the board of directors 
°f the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had voted to establish, subject 
to review and determination by the Board of Governors, a rate of 
7-1/4 per cent on loans to member banks under sections 13 and 13a 
°f the Federal Reserve Act. The current rate at all Reserve Banks was 
7-1/2 per cent. The directors had also acted to establish corre-
spondingly lower rates on advances under other sections of the Act. 
Chairman Burns recommended that the pending rate reduction 
b e denied. He thought the System was now in a good position to move 
toward lesser monetary restraint if economic and financial develop-
ments warranted such a course, but he did not believe it would be 
desirable for the System to make the equivalent of a formal announce-
ment that policy was easing. Actions in that direction through open 
market operations could always be confirmed by a discount rate reduc-
tion later. 
The other Board members indicated that they agreed with the 
Chairman's position. The view was expressed that the discount rate 
should be permitted to lag somewhat behind market developments. In 
tllat eonnection it was noted that bill rates had fallen below the 
Cutrent discount rate, but they were still within a desirable range 
other short-term rates were well above 7-1/2 per cent. The 
onutient was also made that a decrease in the discount rate at this 

4071 
10/17/73 
-19-
time would tend to have adverse repercussions on the position of 
the dollar in foreign exchange markets. 
In further discussion Governor Bucher suggested that the 
Board schedule a thorough discussion of the longer-run strategy it 
might follow in making its discount rate decisions. Other Board 
members agreed that such a discussion would be useful. Helpful 
background materials on this subject could be found in papers prepared 
some years ago in connection with a major System study of the 
discount function. 
After further brief consideration, the Board voted unani-
mously to disapprove the pending discount rate reduction, with the 
Ur*derstanding that a letter outlining the major considerstions in 
the Board's decision would be sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
B°ston. Specifically, the staff was instructed to use the letter 
Se^t on October 4 to the Boston Bank as a basis for the new letter. 
1 f-
was also understood that the substance of the letter, without 
identification of the Bank involved, would be communicated to the 
Residents of the other Reserve Banks. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
B°ston and a copy of the memorandum sent to the Presidents of the 
other Federal Reserve Banks, dated October 17 and 18, 1973, respec-
tively 9 a r e attached as Items 15 and 16. 

a 
tvy? 
10/17/73 
-20-
Other discount rates. The establishment without change by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, and San Francisco on October 4 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
and Dallas 
on October 11, 1973, of the rates on advances and discounts 
l n their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Messrs. Bernard and O'Brien then withdrew and Messrs. Solomon, 
Leavitt, Oehmann, and Tuttie returned to the meeting. 
United States National Bank. In a memorandum dated October 16, 
1973, Mr. Leavitt reported that Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
a State member bank, and two national banks also located in California 
had each expressed an interest in bidding to acquire United States 
National Bank, San Diego, California, which was scheduled to be placed 
lri receivership later this week. He said that applications had been 
filed under the Bank Merger Act by the three banks to acquire United 
^ates National Bank. Mr. Leavitt recommended that the Board grant 
^ i o r approval 
to the acquisition of certain assets and assumption of 
Certain liabilities of United States National Bank by Union Bank, it 
heing understood that the Comptroller of the Currency would approve 
a similar emergency take-over of United States National Bank by each 
the two national banks that had made application and that only the 
°rder pertaining to the successful bidder would be made public. 

4 073 
10/17/73 
-21-
Other material relating to this application and distributed 
Prior to the meeting for the Board's consideration included memoranda 
from the Legal Division dated October 17, 1973, containing corre-
spondence from the Comptroller of the Currency and the Department 
Justice and also containing a draft order implementing the staff's 
aPproval recommendation on the merger application. 
After discussion, which clarified the manner in which the 
federal Deposit Insurance Corporation would furnish a "clean" bank 
to the successful bidder, the Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Union Bank to acquire certain assets and assume certain 
liabilities of United States National Bank and conditionally authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of which is 
attached as Item No. 17. It was understood that a representative 
°f the Board would be in attendance at the bidding for acquisition 
°f United States National Bank and would produce and make public the 
B°ard's order only in the event that Union Bank was the successful 
bidder, it was further understood that if Union Bank were not the 
Successful bidder, no public announcement of the Board's action on 
^is application would be made and that no action would be taken by 
Union Bank as a result of the order. 
(Secretary's Note: On the following day, October 18, 1973, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation declared United States 

4074 
10/17/73 
-22-
National Bank insolvent and announced that Crocker National Bank, 
San Francisco, California, was selected from among the three bidding 
banks to acquire the "good assets" and assume certain liabilities of 
the insolvent bank. The acquisition of United States National Bank 
b y Cr°cker National Bank was consummated immediately. Accordingly, 
the Board's order regarding the merger application by Union Bank 
W a s n o t made public, and no action was taken by Union Bank as a 
result of the order. On the same day, all indebtedness by United 
States National Bank to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
W a s repaid in full by Crocker National Bank.) 
Staff members associated with the subjects of the remaining 
eritries in these minutes then returned to the meeting. 
Building programs. In a memorandum dated October 16, 1973, 
the Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities recommended that 
t h e Board: 
1• Authorize the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco to 
expend up to $500,000 to take options on properties as 
a future building site; 
Hold in abeyance the Richmond Reserve Bank building 
program now in the planning phases; and 
Authorize an estimated maximum expenditure of $360,000 
for appropriate professional consultants to provide 
support for a special task force group that will be 
charged with the development of planning and design 
techniques in connection with the System's building 
programs. 

4075 
10/17/73 
-23-
Time constraints limited discussion at today's meeting to 
the Committee's recommendation with respect to the San Francisco 
Reserve Bank. Discussion indicated that the proposed expenditures 
by 
the San Francisco Bank for options were for the purpose of 
forestalling possible loss of the site to other prospective purchasers. 
Moreover, it was noted that no difficulty would be encountered in 
selling either the options or the land itself, if acquired, if events 
should turn in that direction. Reservations were expressed that, 
S3-nce the Board had not so far acceded to the view of the San 
Francisco directors that a new building was needed, authorization 
j. acquire the options might be regarded as tacit agreement that a 
building program was in prospect. Governor Sheehan indicated that 
l f the Board granted the authorization, the letter so informing the 
Rp 
serve Bank would emphasize that the action was not to be regarded 
as Prejudging the basic question of whether or not a building program 
W a s to be undertaken. 
The Board authorized the San Francisco Reserve Bank to acquire 
the 
Property options in question. A copy of the letter sent to the 
Bank is attached as Item No. 18. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting. 
Thrift notes. At its meetings on August 16 and 31, 1973, 
°ard dis cussed, but deferred action on, a request by Citizens 6c 

4076 
10/17/73 
-24-
Southern Holding Company, Savannah, Georgia, for the Board's opinion 
regarding the permissibility of its proposal to engage in the sale 
°f small-denomination "thrift notes" for the purpose of supplying 
funds to its nonbanking subsidiaries. During the period since the 
Proposal was first advanced in 1972, its structure had been modified 
various respects. At present, the proposal contemplated the sale 
to the public of notes of 12 months or less as a continuous offering 
denominations of $50 to $100, with no maximum amount limit. The 
n°tes, which would be denominated "C & S Thrift Notes" or bear a 
similar name, would be sold only at offices of the holding company 
a n d its nonbanking subsidiaries, and interest rates would be variable 
a°cording to money market conditions. There would be no guarantee 
0 r indemnity of the notes by any of the bank affiliates of Citizens & 
Southern Holding Company. 
In memoranda dated August 21 and October 3, 1973, Mr. Plotkin 
GxPlored the possible applicability of the Glass-Steagall Act to the 
Proposal. He recommended, as did Mr. O'Connell in a memorandum of 
August 30, that the Board rule that the proposed activity would not 
b° Permissible, on the ground that the sale of "thrift notes" would 
c°nstitute Citizens & Southern Holding Company's being principally 
en§aged in securities activities of the nature prohibited by section 
2Q r 
o t the Glass-Steagall Act. In a memorandum of October 16, 1973, 

4077 
10/17/73 
-25-
the Office of the Secretary reported that the Conference of Presidents 
had concluded, in essence, that the issuance of thrift notes would 
b e Permissible under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
with certain safeguards, but that the applicability of the Glass-
Steagall Act was an open question that should be pursued. 
After discussion at today's meeting, the Board determined. 
Governors Mitchell and Sheehan dissenting, that the issuance of 
thrift notes of the nature contemplated by Citizens & Southern 
Holding Company would not be permissible under the Glass-Steagall 
A c t. A draft of letter that would so inform the holding company was 
read at the meeting and approved, it being understood that the 
letter would be sent in a form satisfactory to the Chairman. A copy 
o f the letter in the form in which it was sent is attached as Item No. 19. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

l i f e 
41)78 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
QF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
10/17/73 
ADUREHS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
October 17, 1973 
^he Northern Trust International 
Banking Corporation 
World Trade Center, Suite 3941 
N g w York, New York 10048 
Gentl emen: 
As requested in your letter of August 16, 1973, the 
oard of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("NTIBC") to 
Purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all of the shares of 
N°rtrust International Finance (Hong Kong) Limited ("Nit"), Hong Kong, 
a cost of approximately $10,000, provided the shares are acquired 
W lthm one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
hares of NIF by NTIBC is granted subject to the following conditions 
(1) That NTIBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in NIF if NIF at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in wheh a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if NIF establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in llong Kong or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to NTIBC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, NTIBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of NIF as it may require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by NIF be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if NIF were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

4079 
The Northern Trust International 
Ranki .ng Corporation 
- 2 -
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
uUspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
delate to restrictions on loans granted by NIF in Ilong Kong in the 
currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
lrivestment wi 11 be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
a s they apply to The Northern Trust Company and its affiliates. 
V ery truly y ours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
4080 
^Ures^; 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
• f" THE 
ADDRESS. OFFICIAL CDRRrEPDNOt NCE 
TO THE BOARD 
Item No. 2 
10/17/73 
October 17, 1973 
Security Pacific Overseas Corporation 
561 South Spring Street 
Los Angeles, California 
90013 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 17, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("SPOC") to 
continue to hold the shares of Security Pacific Overseas Investment 
Corporation (SPOIC), Los Angeles, California, after SPOIC acquires 
all the shares of Security Pacific Australia Limited (SPAL), 
Sydney, Australia, at a cost of approximately A$10,000 (about 
v14,200) provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of SPAL by SPOC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That SPOC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in SPAL if SPAL at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if SPAL establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Australia or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to SPOC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, SPOC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of SPAL as it may require from time 
to t itne; and 

4081 
2~ 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by SPAL be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if SPAL were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by SPAL in Australia 
in. the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of SPAL. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to Security Pacific National Bank and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Security Pacific 
Overseas Corporat1on 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4082 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
10/17/73 
SUBURBAN BANCORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
Suburban Bancorporation, Hyattsville, Maryland, has applied 
c 
0 r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the 
v°ting shares of Farmers and Mechanics National Bank, Frederick, Maryland 
("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and n 
n e h^s been timely received. The Board has considered the 
aPPlication in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in the State, 
C°ntrols one bank, Suburban Trust Company ("Suburban"), which operates 
hanking offices and holds deposits of approximately $690 million, 
Presenting approximately 10 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
bating J 
in the State of Maryland. (All banking data are as of December 31, 
1972 
unless otherwise noted). Upon consummation of the proposed 
quisition of Bank, Applicant would control approximately 12 per cent 
of 
e total deposits in commercial banks in the State, and would rank 
reby as the State's third largest banking organization. 

4083 
-2-
Bank, which has 13 offices, holds about 2 per cent of the 
total commercial bank deposits in the State and ranks as the ninth 
lar8est banking organization in the State. Bank has ten offices in 
the "^'ket approximated by Frederick County, and it also operates 
three offices just across the Frederick County- line—two in Carroll County 
fohich is in the Baltimore SMSA) and one in Montgomery County (which is 
ln ^ e Washington D.C. SMSA). Overwhelmingly the largest of nine banks 
the Frederick County market, Bank controls approximately 44 per cent 
of 
e area deposits. The second and third largest banks in the market, 
Control 
J-, respectively, 20 and 11 per cent of the deposits in the market 
e each of the six remaining banks in the market (all independent 
^affiliated with a bank holding company) controls less than 10 per 
o f market deposits. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank has no offices in Frederick 
CQ 
n t y a n d derives an insignificant amount of deposits from the Baltimore 
only direct competition between Bank and Applicant appears 
b e limited to the Montgomery County portion of the market approximated 
by 
e Washington SMSA. In the Montgomery County area, Bank has one office 
Suburban has four offices, all within a 12 mile radius of Bank's branch 
in 
ascus, Maryland. Although Suburban controls 30 per cent of deposits 
^ 
gomery County, consummation of this transaction would increase 
share of deposits controlled by Applicant in that area by less than 
c 
and would apparently not have a significant effect on present 
C % e t i t i n n* As of June 30, 1972, the Damascus office of Bank had deposits 
$2.4 million, representing less than one-half of 1 per cent of the 
p0alta in Montgomery County. It appears, therefore, that present 

4084 
-3-
competition between Applicant and Bank would be only slightly affected 
^ consummation of this transaction. 
While the effects of Applicant's proposal on existing 
competition do not raise serious impediments to approval of the application, 
consummation of the proposal would,in the Board's view, have significantly 
adverse effects on potential competition between Applicant and Bank in 
Frederick County as well as the Montgomery County portion of the 
Washington, D. C. SMSA. In regard to Frederick County, which is adjacent 
to both the Washington SMSA and Baltimore SMSA, the proposal herein would 
^iminate the likely alternative of Applicant entering Frederick County 
trough less anticompetitive means such as 
novo or foothold 
acquisition. It is clear that Applicant possesses the resources for 
^ningful de novo entry (either by establishing a branch or a nex? bank) 
i n t 0 Frederick County, an area which has experienced above average growth 
ln the past and which is expected to enjoy continued economic and 
filiation growth. Applicant maintains that it has no interest in 
"fo °thold" or de novo entry into Frederick County. The Board, however, 
does -,,4 
view a foothold or die novo acquisition as a realistic alternative to 
116 Proposed acquisition of the largest bank in the Frederick County 
rket. In fact, the acquisition of one of the smaller, independent banks 
in n e area (of which there are six) would be clearly preferable from a 
^Petitive standpoint to the proposal herein. On the basis of the facts 
tecord, including the prospects for continued economic growth 
in tha 
area, the proximity of Frederick County to an area of Applicant's 
^ina 
ance (Montgomery County), and the aggressive branching policy 

4.085 
-4-
foUowed by Applicant in the past, ~~ the Board regards Applicant 
as a likely potential entrant into Frederick County. In this 
Case» t h e acquisition of the leading bank in a concentrated market by 
a likely entrant into that market is undesirable from a competitive stand-
Point. The Board is of the view, therefore, that consummation of this 
Proposal would have a significantly adverse effect of potential competition 
Frederick County. 
Of equal concern to the Board is the apparent adverse effect 
0f Applicant's proposal on potential competition in the Montgomery 
°unty portion of the market approximated by the Washington, D. C. SMSA. 
°ted above, Applicant is already the largest banking organization in 
°ntgomery County. Inasmuch as banks located in Washington, D. C. 
Proper are precluded by law from branching into suburban Montgomery County, 
116 0nly hope for increased competition and for a deconcentration of 
b a ^ 
8 resources in the County must necessarily lie to a large extent 
Oft « 
reserving the possibility that independent banks such as Bank will 
in the area. Acquisition of Bank by Applicant would tend to solidify 
the evi 
isting banking structure in Montgomery County and preclude the 
s i bUity of increased competition through further expansion by Bank in the 
°QUnty 
a . 
* as the only Maryland bank with deposits in excess of $100 million 
head 
^quarters outside the Baltimore SMSA and Washington SMSA, it 
aPPeats fu 
rnat Bank is one of the few banks outside the two SMSAs with the 
resources necessary to expand its operations in Montgomery County. 
iy^tfTc- 
-
0ffices
 
e n d ° f 1 9 7 2' ^ P 3 1 0 0 1 ^ 1 8 subsidiary bank operated 45 banking 
and had approval for 13 addition*! branch locations. 

4086 
-5-
That Bank is likely to expand its operations in Montgomery County appears 
Probable. Bank established its Damascus branch in 1965 and it is permitted 
by Maryland law to branch further into Montgomery County. Given the 
hi8h level of commuting in the area (30 per cent of the work force in 
Frederick County apparently works outside the county) and the further 
economic integration of Frederick County and Montgomery County, it appears 
likely that Bank would attempt to increase its banking operations in 
°ntgomery County. However, as the result of the consummation of this 
Proposal, the prospect of Bank developing into a meaningful competitive 
f°rce in Montgomery County would be eliminated and the prospects for 
in** 
creased competition in the area seriously diminished. 
On the basis of the foregoing and all other facts in the 
record, the Board concludes that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
uld have significantly adverse effects on potential competition in both 
ederick County and Montgomery County, and unless such anticompetitive 
c t s a r e outweighed by other consideration reflected in the record, 
th 
te aPplication should be denied. 
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary bank 
regarded as satisfactory, their managements appear capable, and the 
Pt0sPects of each are considered favorable. The same conclusions 
Pp:iy generally with respect to the financial and managerial resources 
Prospects of Bank, whether as an independent bank or as a subsidiary 
Applicant, These considerations, however, while favorable to the 
^Pftl i 
Nation, do not outweigh the adverse competitive effects of the 

; 4087 
-6-
There is no evidence in the record that the banking needs of 
Lt 
e public in Frederick County are not presently being met by the nine 
inking institutions operating therein. Applicant proposes to provide 
^Proved banking services, including lower finance charges on Bank's credit 
trust services, and mortgage lending s e r v i c e s . ^ 
t h e s e 
l n p r o v e d 
Services p r o v i d e s o m e u e l g h t f o r a p p r o v a l > t h e B o a r d d o e g n o t c o n g i d e r 
t h e g e 
aerations sufficient to outweigh the anticompetitive effects of the 
ptoPosal described herein. Moreover, it appears that such benefits 
oe adequately provided by Applicant through an alternative means of 
ntrV into the Frederick County market. Finally, for the residents of 
ntgomery County, consummation of the proposal would have an adverse 
effect n 
on convenience and needs in that it would remove an alternative 
C e (Bank's branch) of banking services. Accordingly, the Board 
8 that the anticompetitive effects inherent in Applicant's proposal 
o t outweighed by the considerations relating to the convenience 
need8 of the communities to be served. 
On the basis of all relevant facts in the record, the Board 
es that approval of the proposed acquisition is not in the public 
lr>tere3t 
n . . 
» and the application is denied for the reasons summarized above. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective October 17, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
rs 
Chester B. Feldberg 
^L] 
Secretary of the Board 
— 
Go,!ehai>.RBucL'hlS f 
V l c e C1,alrr',an "itchelX and Governors Brimmer, 
tn°r Daane 
, I o l l a n d- 
A b s e n C a n d not voting: Chairman Burns and 

4088 
B O A R D C1F GDVf-IR N • R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/17/73 
Mr. William V. Skidmore 
Assistant Director for Legislative 
Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 20530 
Dea r Mr. Ski dmore: 
The Board concurs with the draft reply of the Treasury 
Department on S. 1933, a bill to permit national banks to under-
write and deal in certain revenue bonds issued by State and local 
governments. In connection with hearings in 1967 on a sintilar 
bil'L, S. 1306, the staff of the Board conducted an economic 
analysis of the interest cost effects of commercial bank under-
writing of municipal revenue bonds. That study concluded that 
there would probably be a small but significant reduction in 
net interest costs to State ayid local governments through bank 
participation as underwriters and dealers in the revenue bond 
market. The present bill, like S. 1306, contains a number of 
safeguards to protect against various potential conflicts of 
interest. After weighing the issues involved, the Board recom-
mends that S. 1933 be enacted. 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
ADDf?K5n OFFICIAL COR«ESPDNDENCE 
TD THE fciUARP 
October 18, 1973 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4089 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
10/17/73 
FIRST ALABAMA BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(l2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less 
Sectors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The 
Selma National Bank, Selma, Alabama ("Bank"). The bank into which 
Is to be merged has no significance except as a means to 
f a c iHtate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
the 
e Proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization 
ls treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
nterested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
d views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
and a ] 1 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
3(c> of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization 
in Aiak 
ma» controls eight banks with aggregate deposits of 
$?4i 6 
million, which represent 10.9 per cent of total deposits 

41) SO 
- 2 -
In commercial banks in the S t a t e . T h e acquisition of Bank (deposits 
°f $30.5 million) would not significantly increase Applicant's share 
o f total commercial bank deposits in Alabama and would not alter its 
tank among banking organizations in the State. 
Bank, the second largest of six banks in the Selma banking 
Market (approximated by Dallas County, Alabama), controls 25.3 per cent 
total deposits in commercial banks in such market. The largest and 
tlUrd largest market representatives control, respectively, 33.9 per 
Cent and 25.2 per cent of total market deposits. Applicant's sub-
sidiary closest to Bank is the First National Bank of Montgomery, 
*0cated about 45 miles east of Bank; and no meaningful competition 
e*ists between Bank and any of Applicant's present banking subsidiaries. 
A U k 
n°ugh Applicant's mortgage company subsidiary does originate some 
Itl°rtgage loans within the Selma market, it has neither offices nor 
mPloyees located in such market. Consummation of the proposal would 
ot eliminate any significant competition between Bank and Applicant's 
sage company because of the limited market shares of each and the 
esence of numerous other sources of real estate lending. It appears 
nUkely that any future competition would develop between Bank and 
ny 
Applicant's banking subsidiaries because of the distances involved 
Alabama's restrictive branching laws; nor does Applicant's entry 
de n o 
^ 
into the Selma market appear to be a likely prospect, since 
c0Qjpankin8 data are as of December 31, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding 
atly acquisitions and formations approved through September 24, 1973. 

, I 40SI 
•3-
are 
no 
D a U a s County's population has declined in recent years. Furthermore, 
on Bank s relative size and market share, it does not appear 
that r* 
onsummation of the proposed transaction would enable Applicant 
0 dominate the Selma market. On the basis of the record, the Board 
c°nside 
u 
ers that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
-J 
V e t S e l y affect competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources as well as the future 
ProsPects of Applicant, its present subsidiary banks, and Bank 
8 Orally satisfactory and consistent with approval. There is 
idence that the major banking needs of the Selma market are going 
^served 
u 
. However, access to Applicant's greater resources will 
assist R ank in satisfying the high seasonal loan demands of the local 
C u l t u r e industry. Applicant will also assist Bank in providing 
services. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
t h e community are consistent with approval. It is the Board's 
gtnent t-hn* 
^ 
cnat consummation of the proposed transaction would be in 
P u b U c interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
6 reaso ns summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
u ) befor G the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
Of 
jud 

4092 
-4-
thls Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective October 17, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
?ri 
a c ti° n : Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
^fcr, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

•Sue^;--' 
BOARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
403,-J 
Item No. 6 
10/17/73 
A D O R L G S 
D r r i C I A L 
C O R R E 3 P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H C 
B O A R D 
October 19, 1973 
John L. Nosker, Senior Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 23261 
')e£*r Mr. Nosker: 
This refers to the Section 3(a)(1) and 4(c)(8) applications 
Diversified Mountaineer Corporation, Charleston, West Virginia, 
F° become a bank holding company with respect to The First National 
, rik of South Charleston,' South Charleston, West Virginia, and to 
r°tain its industrial banking and insurance activities. 
t 
* 
Notice of receipt has been published in the Board's H.2 
PubUcat ion No. 53 (1972), and in the Federal Register. 
Two work copies of the application are being returned to 
Bank and should be forwarded to Applicant. The original 
application is being retained in the Board's fi'les. 
k 
A notification of withdrawal will be published in the 
°ard's H.2 publication showing action taken during the week ending 
ctober 20, 1973. Please notify Diversified Mountaineer Corporation 
of thi s action. 
Very truly yours 
WJ JO,'in 
iycn 
John N. Lyon 
Assistant Director 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Closures 

4094 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM . 
item No. 7 
10/17/73 
CENTRAL BANCOMPANY 
°rder Approving Acquisition of The Guaranty Trust Company of Missouri 
and Harrison L. Winter and Associates 
Central Bancompany, Jefferson City, Missouri, a bank holding 
C°mpany wlthin the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
Of 4.L 
_ 
e Board's Regulation Y, to acquire not less than 90 per cent of the 
°tlr*g shares of The Guaranty Trust Company of Missouri ("Company"), 
o t the assets and business of Harrison L. Winter and Associates 
("Parh 
tnership"), both of Clayton, Missouri. Company engages in the 
ivities of a trust company and performs fiduciary services, but is 
authorized to engage in any commercial banking business; Partnership 
8 e s in fiduciary services in conjunction with Company. Such 
i v i t i e s have been determined by the Board to be closely related to 
atlki»g (12 CFR 225.4(4)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
s to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
has bG e n duly published (38 Federal Register 26152). The time for filing 
c°nnnents 
and views has expired and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, the ninth largest banking organization in Missouri, 
'°ntt°ls t-K 
cnree subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits approximating 
1/ 
n» 
representing 1.9 per cent of total commercial bank 
i ^ T r i r r 
anking data are as of December 31, 1972. 

4095 
- 2 -
dePosits in the State. Applicant presently has no nonbank sub-
diaries. 
Company is a State-chartered trust company which engages 
°nly i n providing fiduciary services and is not authorized to engage 
in any commercial banking business. Partnership engages in providing 
fiH 
uciary services in conjunction with Company. Their combined trust 
a S S e t s totaled $24 million as of December 31, 1972, and, based on operating 
e V e n u e fr°m trust services, Partnership and Company together rank sixth 
ni0n8 36 trust organizations operating in the St. Louis area. Although 
rSani2ed as two separate companies, Company and Partnership have 
ted, for all practical purposes, as a single trust operation with 
e same management and personnel. Upon approval and consummation of the 
Pto 
p°sal, Applicant intends that Company and Partnership will be merged 
hereafter operate as a single entity and a direct subsidiary of 
^Ppli 
Cant, primarily providing trust services for customers of Applicant's 
Ubsidiary bank in Clayton, Missouri. 
Company and Partnership's market area is the St. Louis banking 
approximated by central St. Louis County and the surrounding 
r°Politan area). Applicant has one banking subsidiary engaging in 
activities, The Central Trust Bank, Jefferson City, Missouri; 
but t h l 
i s subsidiary is located 135 miles from St. Louis and derives no 
buaitieSfl * 
a irom the market area of Company and Partnership. Applicant's 
8ubald. 
ry in the St. Louis market area, The First National Bank of 

-3-
^layton, does not presently have trust powers. Of the 36 other trust 
°r8anizations in the St. Louis market area, the combined share of 
t r u s t revenue of Company and Partnership is less than 2 per cent of 
the market total. De novo entry by Applicant into trust activities 
3,1:1 the St. Louis market is not regarded as a likely alternative due 
Primarily to the large number of established sizeable competitors 
a l r e a dy operating in the market, and the time and expertise required 
t0 develop a successful trust operation. Accordingly, consummation of 
th 
e proposal would not appear to have an adverse effect on existing 
°r future competition in the market. The Board concludes that com-
petitive considerations are consistent with approval of the application. 
It is anticipated that Company and Partnership's affiliation 
*th Appiicant should enable the proposed subsidiary to become a stronger 
mPetitive force in the St. Louis fiduciary market. Applicant intends 
to °Perate Company and Partnership as the trust arm of their St. Louis 
ariki 
n8 subsidiary and plans to enlarge the scope of trust services 
nc-ty offered by Company and Partnership in this area. There is 
evidence in the record indicating that consummation of the proposed 
^u3-sition would result in undue concentration of resources, unfair 
^tition, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, or other 
effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
the rec 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
t e s t factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 

4097 
-4-
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^termination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
Subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
^e provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
rc*ers issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 17, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
5 t W t i n g f o r t h i s action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
BUr
 
er» Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman 

.. 40 D8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
10/17/73 
MERCANTILE EA INCORPORATION, INC. 
Order for Hearing 
In the matter of the application of Mercantile Bancorporation, 
St. Louis, Missouri, for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(3) 
of- the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per 
c° n t 0L* more of the voting shares of Lewis & Clark State Bank of St. Louis 
County, St. Louis County, Missouri. 
On September 21, 1973, notice of subject application was published 
U l U l G Ferlerol, Roister (38 F.R. 26507). Additionally, in accordance with 
SGction 3(b) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(b)), notice of receipt of subject 
aPPHcation was duly given to the Commissioner of Finance of the State 
Of 
p 
'i*souri_. Within 30 days thereafter, the Commissioner submitted to 
Board in writing his statement expressing disapproval of the application, 
in 1 
J-ght of the Commissioner's submission, the Board is required by sec-
3(b) of the Act to schedule a hearing on the application. Accordingly, 
tt -i 
Igjiereby ordered, That, pursuant to section 3(b) of the Bank Holding 
Con,Pany Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(b)), a public hearing with respect to this 
Application be held commencing at 9:30 a.m., on Thursday, November 8, 1973, 
0 t the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 411 Locust Street (Post Office 
St. Louis, Missouri 63166), before a duly designated Administrative 
Jurl 
uage, such hearing to be conducted in accordance with the Board's 
Ru*ea of Practice For Formal Hearings (12 CFR Part 263). 

- 2 -
I^ig further ordered, That: the following matters will be the subject 
consideration at said hearing, without prejudice to the designation 
additional related matters and questions upon further examination: 
(1) Whether the proposed acquisition would result in a monopoly, 
or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolise the business of banking 
in any part of the United States; 
(2) Whether the effect of the proposed acquisition in 
any section of the country may be substantially to lessen 
competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or in any other 
manner would be in restraint of trade, and whether any anti-
competitive effects found with respect to the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction .in meeting the convenience 
and needs cf- the community to be served; and 
(3) The financial and managerial resources and future 
Ptospects of the Applicant and of the bank proposed to be 
acquired, and the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
X t ,• „ , 
—^"JL^rther ordered. That any person desiring to 
testimony, present 
evidr 
cnce, or otherwise participate in these proceedings should file with 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
b. c • 20551., on or before October 25, 1973, a written request containing 

. 4100 
-3-
a statement of the nature of the Petitioner's interest in the proceedings, 
the extent of the participation desired, a summary of the matters con-
cerning which the Petitioner desires to give testimony or submit evidence, 
a n d the names and identity of witnesses who propose to appear. Requests 
^iil be submitted to the designated Administrative Law Judge for his 
determination and persons submitting them will be notified of his decision. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 17, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B, Feldberg 
Chester B.""Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

4191 
Item No. 9 
10/17/73 
T I C I A L 
C D R R E S P U N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
17, 1973 
AT;R M A I L 
- 
R E G I S T E R E D 
R j m i R N 
r e c e i p t 
r e q u e s t e d 
Mr. James E. Brown, President 
Mercantile Bancorporation, Inc. 
721 Locust Street 
St. J jouis. Missouri 63101 
ear Mr. Brown: 
* 
• x 
This refers to the application of Mercantile Bancorporation, 
Inc., for prior approval of the Board of Governors, pursuant to sec-
tion 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, to acquire 
voting shares of: Lewis & Clark State Bank of St. Louis County, and 
to my letter of October 11, 1973, advising you, in accordance with 
D.S.C. 1842(b), that the Commissioner of Finance, State of Missouri, 
"as notified the Board in writing that he disapproves subject application. 
This letter constitutes official notice, in accordance with 
section 3(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(b)), that 
a hearing on subject application will commence at 9:30 a.m., Thursday, 
November 8, 1973, at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 411 Locust 
Street (Post Office Box 442), St. Louis, Missouri 63166. The hearing 
J-s required, and the Board's jurisdiction established, by section 3(b) 
the Act. The hearing will be conducted by Judge Lewis Sornson 
(Civ il Aeronautics Board, 1825 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., Room 724, 
v Washington, D. C. 20428), an Administrative Law Judge designated by 
the Civil Service Commission. 
Your attention is directed to the Board's Rules of Practice 
Fo): Formal Hearings (12 CFR 263), and to Chapter 5 of Title 5 of 
the United States Code, for procedures governing the conduct of the 
hearing. Since the statute (12 U.S.C. 1842(b)) requires that the 
Noard "afford all interested parties a reasonable opportunity to testify 
at such hearing," notice of the hearing will be published in the Federal 
Regis tier. Accordingly, pursuant to 12 CFR 262.3(g)(2), the hearing 
be a public hearing. 
. fu v.f's^:. • 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADORCSS D 
October 

Ml*. James E. Brown 
-2-
' 4102 
t 
Copies of the Commissioner of Finance's communication 
di .sapproving subject application and of the Board's letter of 
October 17, 1973, to the Commissioner, arc enclosed for your 
information. Please note, however, that section 3(b) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act does not limit the scope of the Board's 
inquiry into relevant issues and, in fact, directs that "the 
Board shall by order grant or deny the application on the basis 
of the record made at such hearing." Accordingly} although the 
Commissioner cites the analysis of a particular Board opinion, 
the parties arc free to present any matters relevant to the 
application. 
Very truly ycu rs, 
Chester B. FeIdberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 

Item No. 10 
10/17/73 
Fo*' immediate release 
October 23, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
bounced it will conduct an oral presentation, on November 28, into the 
°«-ion whether the underwriting of mortgage guarantee insurance should 
added to the list of activities that are considered closely related 
0 banking and permissible to bank holding companies. 
The Board proposed this as an activity permissible to bank 
companies on May 23, 1973. Many of the comments received since 
time suggested a hearing on the issue. 
In addition to considering the question whether underwriting 
ttlOftrrn 
k finarantee insurance is so closely related to banking or man-
QSiru> 
controlling banks as to be a permissible activity for bank 
holding 
companies, the Board's order listed a number of possible 
tri-ction3 and requirements on the performance of the activity that 
also be considered at the oral presentation. 
Those wishing to participate in the proceeding should file a 
v?Utt 
request with the Secretary of the Board 3tating the nature of 
t-heij. • 
interest, and other particulars set out in the Board's order, on 
befc 
clo3e 
-re November 14. Written comment will be received through the 
business on December 12. Previously received written comment 
Vailable for inspection at the Board's offices. 
A c copy of the Board's order is attached. 

4 KM 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Yj 
12 CFR Part 22.5 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Notice of Hearing Regarding the Underwriting of Real 
Estate Mortgage Guaranty Insurance 
The Board of Governors has proposed, by notice published in 
Federal Register on May 23, 1973 (38 F.R. 13572), to add to the 
list of activities that it has determined to be closely related to 
banking or managing or controlling banks (Section 225.4(a) of Regula-
tion Y) the following: "Engaging in the underwriting of real estate 
guaranty insurance . 
The comment period has expired and numerous comments have 
W n received; many of those commenting requested that the Board hold a 
Lating on the proposal, some requested a formal hearing, and some 
rG(luested that the Board defer any action on the proposal pending com-
pl°tion of the study of the private mortgage insurance industry by the 
Pe<*eral National Mortgage Association. 
After consideration of the comments submitted, the Board has 
deeided not to defer action on the proposal and to conduct an oral 
M e n t a t i o n 
on the matter, to be held before available members of the 
B°ard i n t:he B o a r d H o o i n o f l t 8 building on 20th Street and Constitution 
Washington, D. C. on November 28, 1973,. beginning at 
l0,°0 a.m. The proceeding will consist of presentations of 
Statenients in oral or written form, which are to be addressed to the 

Nation, of whether the proposed activity is so closely related to 
banking as to be a proper incident thereto; and to the desirability 
the following restrictions and requirements on the performance of 
activity: 
(a) The proponed subsidiary may not underwrite 
real estate mortgage guaranty insurance on mortgages 
originated by the holding company system; 
(1>) The proponed subsidiary must, prior to under-
writing any insurance, become an insurer qualified by 
the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; 
(c) The bank holding company system may not make 
demand deposits in or reduce correspondent service charges 
for any financial institution as an indirect means of 
compensating that financial institution for utilizing 
the holding company's proposed underwriting subsidiary; 
(d) The name of the proposed subsidiary may not 
Resemble that of the holding company or any subsidiary 
bf*nk; and 
(e) The proposal that, with respect to any pro-
Posed mortgage guaranty subsidiary, due to its status 
a s a nonbanking subsidiary, in no event may the resources 
any banking subsidiary of the holding company be used 
t° support such company if it encounters financial 
difficulties. 

4106 
-3-
Atty person desiring to give testimony, present evidence, 
0/: otherwise participate in these proceedings should file with the 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
c< 20551, on or before November K , 1973, a written request con-
taining a statement of the nature of the petitioner's interest in the 
Proceedings, the extent of participation desired, a summary of the 
tters concerning which petitioner wishes to give testimony or submit 
CVi r* 
•°nce, and the names and identity of witnesses who propose to 
aPpcar, 
Interested persons need not: participate in the proceedings through 
presentation in order to have their views considered. All views 
P i o u s l y expressed in written comments on the pending proposal are 
• consideration by the Board and are. available for inspection and 
°Pying in Room 1020 of the Board's building. Anyone wishing to submit 
M t t o n comments on the issues to be considered at the hearing may do 
at cny time before the close of business on December 12, 1973. 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective October 23,1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
( s e A L 3 

I 1107 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S Item No . 11 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
10/17/73 
October 23, 1973 
Dear T o m : 
The Board of Governors has been informed, 
as a result of conversations between the Board staff and 
the staff of your bank, that the Bank of A m e r i c a is c o n t e m -
plating the issuance of f o r e i g n - c u r r e n c y time deposits at 
its U.S. o f f i c e s . 
The Board has discussed some possible 
consequences of such a p r o g r a m . 
We realize, of c o u r s e , 
that there are numerous channels that can now be used for 
speculation a.gainst the dollar in times of exchange-market 
uncertainty. 
However, the availability of f o r e i g n - c u r r e n c y 
deposits at domestic banking offices could attract U.S. 
f i r m s and other residents who are unwilling to place funds 
with banks abroad or to buy foreign currencies forward in 
the exchange market. 
It would also provide an opportunity 
for U.S. f i r m s to increase their f o r e i g n - c u r r e n c y assets in 
excess of amounts now p e r m i s s i b l e under capital restraint 
p r o g r a m s . 
This greater scope for movements out of dollars 
into f o r e i g n - c u r r e n c y assets could at times pose an increased 
threat to the international stability of the dollar. 
At the 
present time, therefore, the Board of Governors does not 
believe that the Bank of A m e r i c a should undertake to 
provide foreign-currency deposit facilities in the United 
States. 
Sincerely yours 
Arthur F. Burns 
M r . A . W. Clausen 
President 
Bank of A m e r i c a 
San F r a n c i s c o , California 
94120 
•s 

Rt 
C H A I R M A N O r T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. P055I 
Item No. 12 
10/17/73 
October 18, 1973 
The Honorable Thomas R. Eomar 
Chairman 
Federal home Loan Bank Board 
101 Indiana Avenue, N. W. 
. 
Washington, D. C. 2.0552 
% 
^ 
Dear Tom: 
' ' 
1 am writing in response to a request for our views regarding the 
proposed plan for Federal Home Loan Banks to invest in the Federal 
funds market on behalf of member associations. As we understand it, 
the associations would have a special deposit account (related to 
overnight investments) at the Federal Home Loan Banks, and the 
Banks -- coordinated by the Office of Finance at the Home Loan 
fcank Board -- would package these funds for placement primarily 
in the Federal funds market. This proposal would appear to in-
volve a potentially large volume of transactions -- with as much 
a s $1-1/2 billion of daily Federal funds investment indicated. 
The Board appreciates the opportunity to comment on the proposal, 
v'hich clearly involves an area of mutual concern. After full 
.discussion} the Board concluded that it would probably be unde-
sirable for the Home Loan Banks to undertake the proposed Federal 
'fum]s program. We are troubled by two considerations. 
First, the mobilization of a large, additional volume of Federal 
funds by the Home Loan Bank System would run the risk of leading 
t o an undesirable concentration of market power. Any substantial 
erosion of the highly competitive nature of the Federal funds 
Market would unduly complicate the day-to-day activity of open 
market operations. This complication would be unlikely to arise 
if individual savings and loan associations invested in the Federal 
funds market through normal banking channels, as is permitted by 
current; Board regulations. 

4 l 0 < ) 
The Honorable Thomas R. Bomar 
-2~ 
j 
Second, because the credit risk would be incurred by the Federal 
Home Loan Banks, member savings and loan associations would be 
put i.n a favorable position relative to other sellers of unse-
cured Federal funds. 
Also, commercial banks and oilier private 
intermediaries handling Federal funds transactions for savings 
and loan associations would be put at a competitive disadvantage 
relative to Home Loan Banks. 
A question is thereby raised regarding 
equity in treatment among particular groups of private institutions. 
Furthermore, the question is raised whether it is appropriate for 
the Federal Home Loan Banks, in effect, to commit part of their 
resources to underwrite credit risks for the benefit of private 
institutions. 
We would, of course, be pleased to discuss this matter further with 
yOu if you ,0,0. des ire. 
Sincerely 
Arthur F. Burns 

4110 
.•vV)OV GOvV/ . 
B O A R D • F G D V ^ R N D R S 
Item No. 13 
• F THE 
W ^ . ' d 
1 0 / 1 7 / 7 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
••;'<?.' 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
1 
i l f f 
' • ^ l r e ^ ; - * 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O K R E B P O N r C N n E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A M D 
October 19, 1973 
'Hie Board has reviewed the recommendations of the Executive 
^'Jfilttee on Cost Improvement for changes In the Board's existing 
policy with respect to the provision of coin wrapping service and 
concluded that the general direction of this policy should be 
Rifled. To this end, the Board has approved the following specific 
changes in the current policy, effective immediately: 
1. Reserve Banks and Branches that now provide coin 
wrapping service, may continue to do so, but should 
establish charges that will recover full costs 
attributable to coin wrapping in accordance with 
a formula to be developed by the Subcoma ittee on 
Accounting and approved by the Conference of: First: 
Vice Presidents. 
2„ Coin wrapping service should not be extended to 
Federal Reserve Districts not now providing such 
service, except whore there are compelling member 
bank service considerations and where alterna-
tives for obtaining such service are not avail-
able on an economically justifiable basis. 
3. Those portions of the policy statement set forth 
in the Board's letter of Ap/il 5, 1971 (S-2158) 
with respect to the inclusion of wrapped coin as 
a standard unit to be furnished to member banks 
are rescinded. 
XJ. 
i 
Under the modified policy, the System may be able to move toward 
•""drowal from coin wrapping operations in the long run.. No public 
n°uncetnent is contemplated at this time. 
Your8 s incerely, 
C/ua ifco / 
y 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
To T H E PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

[t At-' . j j • ii 
! f f 
s < j v 
* «•• <!•••. 
IB ,.v (L 
If \i 
If |R 
| 
Item No. 14 
10/17/73 
P°r immediate release 
October 17, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today that effective November 1 member banks will be subject to a 7-1/4 per 
CGt*t interest rate ceiling on consumer-type time deposits they issue with 
a Maturity of four years or more and a minimum denomination of $1,000. 
Last July 5, the Board and other Federal regulatory agencies 
Gstablished 
as an experiment a new category of savings Instrument free of 
anV interest rate ceiling so long as the instrument had a maturity of at 
Ieast four years in denominations of at least $1,000 but less than $100,000. 
Legislation recently enacted by Congress requires the regulatory 
aCenc-LGs t Q i m p o c c a n interest rate limitation on all time deposits issued 
n denominations 
of less than $100,000. 
The Board established an effective date of November 1 for the new 
C°iling to enable member banks to terminate issuance of the "no-ceiling" 
tirne deposit in an orderly manner and to allow sufficient time for banks to 
QclaPt their advertising programs to the new ceiling. 
The Board said member banks should refrain during this interim 
PGr,-°d from making new offerings of time deposits or initiating promotional 
Crams relating to time deposits whose terms do not conform with the new 
rGSulatory provisions. 
At the same time, the Board removed a provision in its regulation 
th 
at limited the issuance of four-year, no-ceiling certificates to 5 per 
C°nt 
a bank's total time and savings deposits. The effective date of 
tllls action is also delayed to November 1. The Board said there was no 

4112 
- 2 -
^rther need for the 5 per cent limitation since an interest rate ceiling 
^ill be reimposed as of that date on four-year certificates. 
The Board's actions followed consultation with the Treasury 
apartment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal. 
Ho 
m c Loan Bank Board. The latter two agencies have parallel regulatory 
authority over the maximum rates of interest that may be paid by insured 
^ate-chartered banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System, 
1 Orally insured mutual savings banks, and savings and loan associations, 
hese agencies are announcing similar actions for institutions they 
reSulate. 
Mo change was made in other Regulation Q ceiling rates. Time 
'•P°sits maturing in four years or more in denominations of less than $1,000 
subject, as before, to a 6-1/2 per cent interest rate ceiling. This 
the rate that presently applies to time deposits maturing in 30 months 
°r more. 
A copy of the Board's order in this matter is attached. 
- 0 -

411 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER 11—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Maximum Rates of Interest 
The Board of Governors has amended its Regulation Q so as to 
aPpIy a limit on the maximum ratef3 of interest payable by member banks 
°n time deposits of less than $100,000 with maturities of four years or 
r[tore. This action was taken pursuant to P.L. 93-123 which provides that 
Board and the other Federal financial supervisory agencies shall limit 
rates of interest or dividends which are paid on time deposits of less 
t}ian $100,000 by institutions regulated by them. Pursuant to the Board's 
authority under section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to prescribe 
tllles governing the payment of interest on deposits and § 217.3 of 
^illation Q, the Board's action removes time deposits of $1,000 or 
^ ^ (but less than $100,000), with maturities of four years or more, 
the category of time deposits not subject to an interest rate 
Citation and provides that, effective November 1, 1973, member banks 
Pay interest on such time deposits at a rate not to exceed 7-1/4 
P&T 
cent per year. The Board's action also removes the quantitative 
S t a t i o n on the total amount of such time deposits that may be accepted 
by ^mber banks. 
The effective date of this amendment is deferred until Novem-
ber . 1973, to provide member banks an opportunity to terminate in an 

or 
do 
" 4114 
-2-
° r d e r ly wanner the offering of time deposits of $1,000 or more, with 
Purities of four years or more, that are not subject to an interest 
rat<- limitation. To assure compliance with P.L. 93-123 at the earliest 
p09sible date, however, during the intervening period until November 1, 
1973 
i member banks should refrain from making new offerings of time deposits 
initiating promotional programs relating to time deposits whose terms 
n°t conform with the interest rate limitation established by this 
foment. The rates of interest paid by member banks on outstanding 
llne dGP°aits of $1,000 or more with maturities of four years or more, 
0ff°ted pursuant to § 217.7(a)(2) of Regulation Q, as amended effective 
JUly t- . 
-U/3, are not immediately affected by this amendment, although 
U c h deposits must be modified in the manner provided under § 217.3(b) 
^gulation Q. 
The effective date was deferred for less than the 30-day period 
°rred to in Title 5, United States Code, section 553(d), because the 
r 
]ound that the public interest compelled it to make the action 
-it, 
AVe no later than the date adopted. See § 262.2(e) of the Board's 
e s °f Procedure (12 CFR 262.2(e)). 
Effective November 1, 1973, section 217.7 of the Board's Regula-
tlon 0 X 3 amended to read as follows: 
§2l 7 > 7 
^^^HEJIlfl^. 
*uterest payable by member banks on time 
i*nd__savinga deposits. 
Pursuant to section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act and § 217.3 
m 
„ 
» cne Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System hereby 

4115 
-3-
1/ 
prescribes the following maximum rates 
of interest per annum payable 
by member bank of the Federal Reserve System on time and savings deposits 
(a) Time deposits of $100,00 or more. There is no maximum 
rate of interest presently prescribed on any time deposit of $100,000 
0 r more. 
(b) Time deposits of less than $100,000. 
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a) and 
subpart 2 of this paragraph, no member bank shall pay 
interest on any time deposit at a rate in excess of the 
applicable rate under the. following schedule: 
Maturity 
Maximum per cent 
30 days or more but less 
than 90 days 
5 
90 days or more but less than 
1 year 
5-1/2 
1 year or more but less than 30 
months 
6 
30 months or more 
6-1/2 
(2) Member banks may nay interest on any time 
deposit of $1,000 or more, with a maturity of four years or 
tooro, at a rate not to exceed 7-1/4 per cent. 
i/ The limitation on rates of interest payable by member banks of the 
^ G*al Reserve System on time and savings deposits, as prescribed 
an1*0^1' a r e n 0 t 
t 0 any deposit which is payable only at 
St °ffice of a member bank 3.ocated outside the States of the United 
atQs and the District of Columbia. 

4 1 1 G 
Savings deposits. No member bank shall pay interest at 
a 
in excess of 5 per cent on any savings deposit. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 17, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Cheste'r b7 Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
I T E M 
N O # 
1 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/17/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
-3 i y-i 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
O O A R D 
Octobcr 17, 1973 
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Frank E. M o r r i s 
• . 
President 
Federal R e s e r v e Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Bear M r . 
M o r r i s : 
The Board of Governors acted today to disapprove the 
pending decrease in your Bank's discount rate from 7 - 1 / 2 to 
7 - 1 / 4 per cent voted by your board of directors at their meeting 
on October 15. 
In line with the views communicated to you on 
October 4 when the Board also disapproved a pending decrease of 
1/4 percentage point in your Bank's discount rate, the Board con-
tinued to feel that a reduction under present circumstances might 
Well lead to a misreading of the current posture and outlook for 
monetary policy. 
The Board noted that m o s t short-term market 
ra-tes have fallen somewhat further since early October but that 
Treasury bill rates remain close to the current discount rate and 
other short-term rates are well above 7 - 1 / 2 per cent. 
The m e m b e r s of the Board have asked m e to convey 
tlieir appreciation for the views communicated by your Bank's 
directors in taking their action to reduce the discount rate. 
Yours sincerely, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. 
Feldberg 
Secretary 

to. 
• • AVID O F N • V E R N A N S 
Q 
nr THC 
Item No. 16 
lt 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/17/73 
' * a c e L o r r e s B o n c i e n c e 
• 
& 
-£gesidents of the Federal 
Subject: 
Board Discount Rate Action. 
Reserve Banks 
if { 
/ 
01—-iiormand Bernard 
/V '\] ^ ' 
on October 17, 1973 
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
The Board voted on October 17 to disapprove a pending 
a cUon by one R e s e r v e Bank to reduce the discount rate from 7 - 1 / 2 
^-1/4 per cent. 
The substance of a letter outlining the Board's 
Masons for its decision follows: 
The Board continued to feel that a reduction 
under present circumstances might well 
lead to a misreading of the current posture 
and outlook for monetary policy. 
The Board 
noted that m o s t short-term market rates 
have fallen somewhat further since early 
October but that Treasury bill rates remain 
close to the current discount rate and other 
short-term rates are well above 7 - 1 / 2 per 
cent. 

* 
_ 
• j 4119 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 17 
10/17/73 | 
UNION BANK 
, 
| 
Order Approving Acquisition of Assets 
/ 
Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, a member State bank 
of. the Federal Reserve System, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval to 
acquire certain assets and assume certain liabilities of United 
States National Bank, San Diego, California ($873 million in deposits), 
and, as an incident thereto, to operate the present offices of 
United States National Bank as branch offices. 
N 
• x 
Published notice of the proposed acquisition of assets 
and assumption of liabilities and requests for reports on the competitive 
factors involved therein have been dispensed with as authorized by 
the Bank Merger Act. 
The Board has considered all relevant material contained 
in the record in the light of the factors set forth in the Act, 
including the effect of the proposal on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and prospects of the banks involved, and 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served and finds 
that: 
On the basis of the information before the Board, including 
information from the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board finds 
that an emergency situation exists so as to require that the Board act 
immediately pursuant to the provisions of the Bank Merger Act in order 
to safeguard depositors of United States National Bank. 

Such anticompetitive effects as will be attributable to 
consummation of the transaction will be clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by considerations relating to and ifivolved in the emergency 
situation found to exist. From the record in the case, it is the 
Board's judgment that any disposition of the application other than 
approval would be inconsistent with the best interests of the depositors 
of United States National Bank, and the Board concludes that the proposed 
transaction should be approved on a basis that would not. delay consum-
nation of the proposal. 
' ^ 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that the 
application be and hereby is approved and that the acquisition of 
assets and assumption of liabilities and the establishment of the branch 
offices may be consummated immediately but in no event later than 
three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,1/ effective October 18, 
1973. 
. 
" 
Chester B. Feldberg 
T 
Secretary of the Board 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
tiaane, Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. 

,1 t O.-J 
... 
Item No. 18 
10/17/73 
F I C I A t . 
C O R R E H P O N D C N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
26,' 1973 
John J. Balles, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
tear Mr. Balles: 
The Board has considered ycur letter of September 12, 
1973, and authorizes an expenditure not to exceed $500,000 for 
the purpose of taking options on certain properties for possible . 
construction of a proposed new Head Office building. The Board 
took this action in recognition of the sense of urgency of your 
directors concerning the possible loss of their preferred building 
8ite to another buyer-
The Board regards its action as a holding action pending 
completion of its review of the San Francisco Reserve Bank's 
sPace requirements. It should be clearly understood that the 
pj°ard has not decided whether a new Head Office building in San 
Francisco is needed, and it should not bo inferred from the 
board's action that any aspect of the Bank's building program has 
e n approved. 
Further efforts related to the purchase of the property 
0 r to development of preliminary building design studies should 
'Kforrcd until after the Board of Governors has had an oppor-
tunity to complete its review of the Bank's space needs. 
v 
Yours sincerely, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
m 5 - 
• 
I 
U
P 
B O A R D OF 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A O O f i E G G 
u r 
« October 

fl 
f 
' 1 4 V 
• t e e -
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
^oVcoV*. 
d f t h e 
Item No. 19 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
10/17/73 
• 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. £0551 
A D D R E S S 
n r r i C I A L 
C O R H E S P O N O E N C E 
T U T H E 
H O A R D 
October 18, 1973 
. Mr• Daniel B. Hodgson 
Alston, Miller & Gaines 
Citizens & Southern National Bank Building 
Broad Street 
Atlanta, Georgia 30303 
Dear Mr. Hodgson: 
This is in reference to your letter dated July 26, 1973 
relating to the proposed sale of short-term notes by the C&S Holding 
Company for the purpose of supplying capital to its wholly-owned non-
banking subsidiaries, as described below. You ask if the Board would 
n°t to prevent such sales. 
It is understood that the notes would be denominated "C&-S 
Thrift Notes" or bear a similar name. They would be issued in 
^nominations of $50 to $100, and initially be of 12-month or less • 
maturities. There would be no maximum amount of the issue. Interest 
rates would be variable according to money market conditions but would 
Presumably be at rates somewhat above those permitted by Regulation Q 
CGilings. There would be no guarantee or indemnity of: the notes by any 
the C&S banks and, if necessary, you would consider placing a 
negative representation on the face of the notes that the purchase 
Price was not a deposit, nor an indirect obligation of C&S banks, nor 
covered by deposit insurance. 
The notes would be generally available for sale to members 
of the public, but only at offices of the holding company and its non-
banking subsidiaries. All offices of the holding company would be 
Physically separated from banking offices ,. even when in the same 
Gilding or quarters. Sales would be made only by officers and employees 
o f the holding company and its nonbanking subsidiaries. Although you 
indicate in your letter that the notes may be available for sale at out-
cf-State offices of the holding company and its nonbanking subsidiaries 
to the extent permitted by applicable Securities laws", a further letter 
fr°m Mr. Kattel, President of CcScS, indicates that initially the notes 
v°uld be sold only in Georgia to Georgia residents, thereby complying 
W i th the exemption provided' by section (3) (a) (11) of the Securities Act 
0 f ^33 for "intra-state offerings". Mr. Kattel states that if it is 

Mr. Daniel B. Hodgson 
- 2 - 
, 
j 
decided to offer the notes "outside that exemption", proper steps 
will be taken to register the issue under the Securities Act of 1933. 
You further state that funds from the sale of the notes 
Would be used only to supply the financial needs of the nonbanking 
subsidiaries of the holding company and, in no instance, in the 
banking business nor to maintain the availability of funds in C&S 
banks. As examples, you indicate that the funds may be used to 
s u p p l y the needs of C&S Finance Company (a small loan company), C&S 
Mortgage Company (a mortgage banking company that makes second mortgage 
and residential home loans), and C&S Factoring Company. 
Members of the Board's staff have spoken with representatives 
C&S on a number of occasions regarding various aspects of this 
Proposal. Upon further consideration, it now appears, that, based 
on the above information, the sale of the thrift notes, in the manner 
Proposed, is an activity described in section 20 of the Banking Act 
1933 (12 U.S.C. 377), that is, "the issue, flotation, underwriting, 
Public sale, or distribution. . .of. . .notes, or other securities". 
Since the continued issuance and sale of such securities would be 
necessary to permit maintenance of the holding company's activities 
Without substantial contraction and would be an integral part of its 
operations, the Board is of the opinion that the issuance and sale 
such notes would constitute a principal activity of the holding 
company within the spirit and purpose of the statute. 
(For prior 
B°ard decisions in this regard, see 1934 Federal Reserve Bulletin 485, 
1 2 CFPv 218.104, 12 CFR 218.105, and 12 CFR 218.101; these interpre-
tations appear in the Board's Pub 1 ishcd Intcrpretations at «JV 4607, 
4677, 4677.1 and 4670, respectively.) Consequently, the Board cannot 
aPprove the proposed issue and sale of thrift notes by C&S Holding 
Company as it is of the view that its continued affiliation with any 
member bank would be prohibited by section 20 of the Banking Act of 
1933. 
Very truly yours, 
/ - A / / 
P . 
fiS&'W 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
