MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 27, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 8 Diapproval of proposed reduction in 
discount rate at Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston. 

4625 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, November 27, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Broida, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

4629 
11/27/73 
-2-
Mr. Tynan Smith, Consultant to the Board 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board approved, Governor Bucher 
abstaining, the application of United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, to establish an Edge corporation in Los Angeles, to be 
called United California Overseas Investment Corporation. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant, which transmitted a preliminary 
permit, is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First at 
Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of Peoples 
Bank of Auburndale, Auburndale, Florida, and authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Peoples 
Bank & Trust Company, Selma, Alabama, to acquire the assets and to 
assume the liabilities of The Peoples Bank at Selma Mall, National 
Association, Selma, Alabama. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 3. 
In a memorandum of November 23, 1973, the Committee on Finan-
cial Statistics recommended that the Board approve the inclusion of 
a n inset to the "other assets" item on reports of condition, effective 
December 31, 1973, in order to obtain information on the amount of 
direct lease financing receivables outstanding at State member banks. 

4630 
11/27/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the Committee's recommendation, with 
the understanding that approval of the Office of Management and 
Budget would be sought. It was further understood that negotiations 
would be conducted with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to 
urge collection of such data from insured nonmember banks. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
"Truth in Savings" study. In a memorandum of November 23, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that 
the Board invite public comments on certain questions relating to a 
study to be undertaken in connection with Congressional review of 
S. 1052, the "Truth in Savings" bill. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the recom-
mendation and agreed upon changes in a draft Federal Register notice 
attached to the memorandum. Copies of the revised notice and of the 
related press release are attached under Item No. 4. 
Marine Midland Banks. In a memorandum of November 14, 1973, 
the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended approval of the application of Marine Midland 
Banks, Inc., Buffalo, New York, to acquire shares of American Dimensions, 
Inc., Irvine, California, a mortgage banking company. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the application 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
18 attached as Item No. 5. 

4631 
11/27/73 
-4-
Proposed legislation concerning savings and loan holding 
companies. The Office of Management and Budget had requested the 
Board's views on proposed legislation that would amend the National 
Housing Act concerning regulation of savings and loan holding companies 
that had been proposed by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. In a 
memorandum of November 20, 1973, the Legal Division recommended that 
the Board decline to comment on the proposed legislation at the present 
time. With a memorandum of November 26, 1973, the Legal Division 
submitted a revised draft letter to this effect. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the revised 
draft letter to the Office of Management and Budget, a copy of which 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
D. H. Baldwin Company. In a memorandum of November 14, 1973, 
the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended approval of the application of D. H. Baldwin 
Gompany, Cincinnati, Ohio, to acquire shares of Central Colorado Bancorp, 
Inc., Colorado Springs, Colorado, and thereby to acquire indirectly 
shares of the following banks located in Colorado: Central Colorado 
Bank, Colorado Springs; Academy Boulevard Bank, Colorado Springs; 
The Rocky Ford National Bank, Rocky Ford; and State Bank of Greeley, 
Greeley. 
After discussion, the Board approved the application, 
Governors Mitchell and Brimmer dissenting on competitive grounds, with 

4 6 3 ^ 
11/27/73 
-5-
Governor Brimmer also expressing objection to the applicant's retain-
ing its nonbanking business. The Board authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision. Copies of the order and of the 
dissenting statements of Governors Mitchell and Brimmer are attached 
under Item No. 7. 
Citizens and Southern National Bank -- Citizens and Southern 
Holding Company. In a memorandum of September 28, 1973, the Division 
°f Research and Statistics and the Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation recommended approval of the applications of The Citizens and 
Southern National Bank and of Citizens and Southern Holding Company, 
both of Atlanta, Georgia, to acquire shares of Ison Finance Corpora-
tion, also of Atlanta. In a memorandum of November 19, 1973, the 
Legal Division commented on certain post-employment covenants not 
to compete involved in the proposed transaction. Other documentation 
deluded a memorandum of November 23, 1973, from Mr. Leavitt also 
commenting on the post-employment covenants. 
After a discussion that focused on the reasonableness of the 
covenants not to compete, which involved a five-year employment contract 
and a seven-year post-employment covenant, the Board unanimously denied 
the applications. It was understood that implementing documents would 
prepared for the Board's consideration. Governor Brimmer indicated 
that he would write a concurring statement setting forth his objections 
to covenants not to compete, irrespective of their duration. 

4633 
11/27/73 
-6-
Southwest Bancshares. By order dated March 23, 1973, the 
Board approved the application of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, 
Texas, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to Arlington Bank 
of Commerce, Arlington, Texas. At its meeting on October 23, 1973, 
the Board approved a 60-day extension of time in which Southwest 
Bancshares could consummate the acquisition, subject to prior review 
and approval by the Board. In a memorandum of November 21, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation, in response to a request 
by the applicant, recommended that the Board now modify its order of 
^rch 23, 1973, to enable the applicant to acquire Arlington Bank 
with cash rather than with stock. In a memorandum of November 26, 
1973, the Legal Division concurred in this recommendation. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the requested 
modification of its order of March 23, 1973, and authorized issuance 
°f an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 8. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
NOW accounts. The Board again considered regulation of interest-
bearing accounts subject to negotiable orders of withdrawal (NOW accounts), 
discussed most recently at its meeting on November 23, 1973. In a 
Memorandum of November 26, 1973, Messrs. Melnicoff and Raiken (Legal 
division) summarized the views expressed in a meeting on that date of 
^ e Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 

4634 
11/27/73 
-7-
In today's discussion, Governor Mitchell elaborated upon the 
objectives of the other agencies sharing regulatory authority in this 
matter, and members of the Board expressed views on the issues of 
maximum interest rates, eligibility to hold NOW accounts, limitations 
on account activity, imposition of service charges, and provision 
for clearing facilities. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that 
the position of the Board on these matters would be presented at 
future meetings of the Coordinating Committee. 
Federal Reserve services to Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands, 
On June 15, 1973, the Board had authorized a System task force to 
study whether Federal Reserve services to Puerto Rico and the Virgin 
Islands should be provided by a single Reserve Bank. Currently, some 
services were being provided by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. In a memorandum of 
November 2, 1973, Governor Brimmer recommended that all Federal Reserve 
services to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands be provided by the 
New York Bank. With a memorandum of November 26, 1973, the Division 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations submitted draft letters to implement 
this recommendation. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously determined that the 
New York Bank would be responsible for providing all Federal Reserve 

11/27/73 
-8-
services to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. The Board approved, 
with changes in wording, letters to be sent to the various parties 
concerned, copies of which are attached as Items 9-11. 
All staff members then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, Allison, 
Bernard, Melnicoff, Partee, Axilrod, Broida, Coyne, O'Connell, and 
Bryant. 
Discount rate. Subject to review and determination by the 
Board of Governors, the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston had taken action on November 26, 1973, to establish a rate of 
7-1/4 per cent (a decrease from 7-1/2 per cent) on loans to member 
banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. The 
directors had also acted to establish correspondingly lower subsid-
iary rates on advances under other sections of the Act. The Board 
Previously had voted to disapprove pending reductions of 1/4 percentage 
Point at the Boston Bank on October 4, October 17, November 1, and 
November 15. 
During discussion, the Board members indicated that they 
c°ntinued to feel that a reduction in the discount rate would not be 
timely. Special note was taken of the stronger performance of the 
Monetary aggregates in recent weeks and the slightly tighter condi-
tions being fostered as a consequence in the Federal funds market by 
System Account Manager. In this situation it was felt that a 
Eduction in the discount rate would give rise to uncertainties and 

4636 
11/27/73 
-9-
tend to complicate the conduct of open market operations. Several 
Board members expressed the view that an easing action might well be 
desirable at some point, especially if the energy shortages were found 
to be having a marked retarding influence on the economy. For now, 
however, most members felt that the economic impact of those shortages 
was not sufficiently discernible to warrant an overt policy move. Indi-
vidual Board members also indicated a preference for reducing marginal 
reserve requirements on large-denomination certificates of deposit or 
margin requirements on stock market purchases before taking action to 
lower the discount rate. 
Governor Bucher said he would vote today to disapprove the pending 
rate action. However, the energy situation was contributing to his increas-
Ing concern about the outlook for economic activity and he favored a 
Prompt reduction in marginal reserve requirements on large-denomination 
CD's. In his view, such an action was needed to improve the ability of 
banks to compete for funds and thereby help to sustain economic activity. 
the absence of such a reduction, he would be prepared to lower the 
discount rate. 
Following further brief discussion, the Board voted unanimously 
t° disapprove the pending discount rate action. The Board members then 
agreed upon the substance of a letter to be sent to the Boston Bank out-
lining the major reasons for their decision. It was understood that the 
Substance of the letter, without identification of the Bank involved, 
w°uld be communicated to the Presidents of the other Federal Reserve Banks. 

4637 
11/27/73 
-10-
A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
and a copy of the memorandum sent to the Presidents of the other Federal 
Reserve Banks, both dated November 27, 1973, are attached as Items 12 
atid__13. Attached as Item No. 14 is a copy of a letter dated December 4, 
1973, from the Boston Bank in which the directors of that Bank expressed 
their views in greater detail than usual in response to an invitation 
by the Board for such amplification. 
Other discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on November 20, by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis 
November 21, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond and Dallas 
November 23, 1973, of the rates on advances and discounts in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropria te advice would be sent to those Banks. 
International monetary developments. Chairman Burns reported 
briefly on a meeting that he attended in France, the previous weekend, 
finance officials of France, Great Britain, Japan, West Germany, 
and the United States held for the purpose of reaching agreement among 
^ e five countries on certain issues relating to international monetary 
reform. 
All staff members then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, Allison, 
^Inicoff, and O'Connell; Mr. Metzger, Assistant to the Managing Director 
f 
r Operations and Supervision, entered the room. 

4638 
11/27/73 
-11-
Director appointments. The following actions were taken with 
respect to the appointment of Deputy Chairmen and Class C directors 
at Federal Reserve Banks and the appointment of directors at Federal 
Reserve Bank branches, with the understanding that advice of the 
appointments would be sent to the respective appointees at an appro-
priate time. 
The following were reappointed as directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank branches indicated, each for a three-year term 
(unless indicated otherwise) beginning January 1, 1974: 
Name 
Branch 
Charles W. DeBell 
Charlotte 
David Mathews 
Birmingham 
James W. Long 
Nashville 
Broadus N. Butler 
New Orleans 
Theodore G. Jacobsen 
Salt Lake City (two-year term) 
Thomas T. Hirai 
Seattle (two-year term) 
E. Craig Wall was appointed as Deputy Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond for the year 1974. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the appropriate Federal 
Reserve Banks whether the following persons would accept appointment if 
tendered as Reserve Bank or branch directors for the terms indicated, 
with the understanding that if it were found that they would accept, the 
aPpointments would be made: 
G. Jackson Tankers ley, Chairman of the Board, East Ohio Gas 
Company, Cleveland, Ohio, as a director of the Pittsburgh 
Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland for the three-
year term beginning January 1, 1974. 

4639 
11/27/73 
-12-
Charles Franklin Myers, Jr., retiring Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer, Burlington Industries, Greensboro, North 
Carolina, as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1974, 
with the understanding that if Mr. Myers were not available, 
similar steps would be taken with respect to E. Angus Powell, 
Chairman of the Board, Lea Industries, Inc., Richmond, Virginia. 
Clifford M. Kirtland, Jr., President, Cox Broadcasting Corpo-
ration, Atlanta, Georgia, as a Class C director of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 1974, with the understanding that if Mr. Kirtland 
accepted the appointment, he would be appointed Deputy Chairman 
of the Bank for the year 1974. 
Frank P. Samford, Jr., Chairman of the Board, Liberty National 
Life Insurance Company, Birmingham, Alabama, as a director of 
the Birmingham Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
for the unexpired portion of the three-year term ending Decem-
ber 31, 1975. 
Egbert R. Beall, President, Beall's Department Stores, Bradenton, 
Florida, as a director of the Jacksonville Branch of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta for the three-year term beginning January 1, 
1974. 
Robert H. Strotz, President, Northwestern University, Evanston, 
Illinois, as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1974. 
Clifton R. Wharton, Jr., President, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, Michigan, as a director of the Detroit Branch of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago for the three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1974, with the understanding that if 
Mr. Wharton were not available, similar steps would be taken 
with respect to Jordan B. Tatter, District Horticultural Agent, 
Cooperative Extension Service-Michigan State University, Paw Paw, 
Michigan. 
Howard B. Swearer, President, Carleton College, Northfield, 
Minnesota, as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis for the three-year term beginning January 1, 
1974. 

4610 
11/27/73 
-13-
Loran L. Stewart, President, Bohemia, Inc., Eugene, Oregon, 
as a director of the Portland Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco for the two-year term beginning January 1, 1974. 
(Note: It subsequently developed that Messrs. Myers and Wharton 
were not available for appointment. It having been ascertained 
that acceptances would be forthcoming, appointment telegrams were 
sent to the other persons listed.) 
Chairman Burns and Governor Bucher withdrew from the meeting during 
consideration of director appointments. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Hre^-V' 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
11/27/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 27, 1973 
United California Bank 
Los Angeles, California 
90051 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and Organization Certificate, dated August 31, 1973, 
of the United California Overseas Investment Corporation and 
there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that 
Corporation to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) 
°f the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by 
Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the presi-
dent, treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the 
directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the 
United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock 
is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations 
controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States, chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State 
the United States, or by firms or companies the controlling in-
terest in which is owned by citizens of the United States; and 
(3) that of the authorized capital stock specified,in the Articles 
Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and 
that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 
per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer or 
secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining instalments 
a s and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. The request 
a final permit should forwarded to the Board via the the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 

4642 
United California Bank 
-2 
In accordance with the request made in your letter of 
September 6, 1973, on behalf of United California Overseas 
Investment Corporation, the Board will, when the Corporation's 
final permit is issued, be disposed to grant consent for it to acquire 
shares held by United California Bank International. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that United California 
Overseas Investment Corporation will have no separate base under the 
foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments 
will need to be made under the ceiling of United California Bank. 
Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the understanding 
that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation will be 
made within the guidelines under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your bank and its subsidiaries and that due consideration 
will be given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

. 46-13 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, Q. C. 50551 
November 27, 1973 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated August 31, 1973, of United California Overseas Investment 
Corporation duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
United California Overseas Investment Corporation is authorized 
to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said 
Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to 
commence business in accordance with the provisions of said 
Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
By 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester A, Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4614 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
11/27/73 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act» has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire not less than 90 per cent 
of the voting shares of Peoples Bank of Auburndale, Auburndale, 
Fl<*ida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
^terested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
and an 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c> of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 34 banks with aggregate deposits 
of <>, billion, representing 6.4 per cent of the total deposits 
of 
co®mercial banks in Florida, and is the third largest banking 
tSani2ation a n d b a n k hol(jing c o mp a ny i n that State. 1/ The acquisition 
^ank ($17.5 million in deposits) would increase Applicant's 
e of Florida deposits by less than 0.1 percentage point, and 
^Ppll 
leant's ranking among banking organizations and bank holding 
Sanies in the State would remain unchanged. 
tng^1 banking data are as of June 30, 1973, and reflect bank hold-
(Wr5°n*Pany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
° b e r 31, 1973. 

4615 
-2-
Eank is located in the town of Auburndale in the eastern half 
of the Polk County banking market. In terms of deposits, Bank 
is the largest of two banks in Auburndale (the other bank is a 
subsidiary of the State's second largest banking organization) 
and ranks 11th out of 12 banking organizations competing in the 
Ik County Banking market; Bank controls 2.8 per cent of deposits 
j 
the market. Applicant's present subsidiary bank competing 
1,11 ttle relevant banking market is located 23 miles southeast of 
Bank i n Lake Wales, Florida, and holds 4.2 per cent of market 
Posits. Approval of the proposed acquisition would increase 
applicant's share of market deposits to 7.0 per cent. Some com-
petition exists between Bank and Applicant's Lake Wales subsidiary 
III 
°ne portion of the relevant market. However, due to their 
Nations at opposite ends of this market, the amount of actual 
c°topetition between their banks is minimal. No significant competition 
G*ists between Back, the Lake Wales subsidiary, and any of Applicant's other 
Subsidiary banking offices, and it does not appear that significant 
Uture competition would develop between them in view of the distances, 
Pt Pe 
sence of intervening banks, State laws restricting branching, and 
°tllei: facts of record. It is the Board's judgment that competitive 
°nsiderations are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects 
°f applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are regarded as satisfactory 
Particularly in light of Applicant's commitment to inject additional 

-3-
4646 
CaPital into some of its subsidiary banks. Banking factors are con-
sistent with approval of the application. Although there is no 
evidence in the record to indicate that the banking needs of the 
a r e a a re currently not being met by existing financial institutions, 
Applicant proposes to make trust, investment advisory, and computer 
Se*vices available to Bank's customers. Considerations relating to 
th 
e convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend slight 
Weight toward approval of the application. It is the Board's 
Judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction would be in 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f 
r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
e (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
^te of this Order or (b) later than three months after the 
active date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,2/ effective November 27, 1973, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
(sEaL) 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
________ 
V 
voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
rinuner, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor 
aane. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No0 3 
11/27/73 
THE PEOPLES BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Assets 
and Assumption of Liabilities 
The Peoples Bank and Trust Company, Selma, Alabama, a State 
Member bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied for the Board's 
aPproval, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), of the 
acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities of The Peoples 
Bank at Selma Mall, National Association, Selma, Alabama ("Bank"). 
a Part of the transaction, the sole office of Bank will become a 
br*nch of Applicant. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger in a 
f°rm approved by the Board has been published;"and the Board has requested 
rePorts on competitive factors from the Attorney General, Comptroller of 
Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 
h 
has considered the application in light of the factors set forth 
ln ^ e Act. 
Applicant (deposits of $39.7 million) and Bank (deposits of 
$1 3 miliiori) are both located in Dallas County, which is the relevant 
an^ing market.A/ Applicant has approximately 34 per cent of deposits 
in th 
n e market while Bank has a market share of a little over 1 per 
6nt* However, even though Applicant and Bank are in the same banking 
—-• 
^ 
banking data are as of December 31, 1972. 

- 2 -
®^rket, there has been little competition between the two from the 
time Bank was opened in 1972. This has been due to the nature of 
the relationship between Applicant and Bank; the latter was founded 
Principal shareholders of the former, and 11 officers and directors 
of Appiicant o w n about 90 per cent of the shares of Bank. Applicant 
and Bank share common management; the chairman of the board, president, 
vice president, and directors of Bank hold comparable positions with 
applicant. On the facts before the Board, including the strong existing 
ties between Applicant and Bank, there is little probability that 
^affiliation between Applicant and Bank will occur in the reasonably 
f°reseeable future. The Board concludes that competitive considerations 
are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicant and Bank appear to be generally satisfactory and are consistent 
Vlth 
approval of the application. Considerations relating to the con-
lence and needs of the community are also consistent with approval of 
aPPlication. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
°uld be in the public interest and that the application should be 
^Proved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved. The 
faction 
shall not be executed (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
Allowing the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three 

-3-
^onths after the effective date of this Order unless such period is 
^tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,2/ effective November 27, 1973, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
<SEAL) 
—
-
^ W n g
o u
f o r , t h i s a c t i o n ; 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
^Vern* r e e h a n ' B u c h e r» and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
cr«or Daane. 

Item No. 4 
11/27/73 
For immediate release 
December 3, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
invited public comment as part of a study it is undertaking in 
connection with Congressional review of the so-called "Truth in 
Savings" bill. 
This legislation would require financial institutions to 
disclose the "annual percentage rate" and other terms that apply to 
their savings plans. The subcommittee of the Senate Committee on 
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs that is considering the legisla-
tion asked the Board to study the "feasibility and desirability of 
requiring uniform methods of interest rate computation on savings 
'V-accounts." 
4 • 
4 », . '. v, . 
J 
,«v 
... f: 
' 
•> --i 
In this connection, the Board requested public comment on 
the following questions: 
1. If a single method of interest rate computation 
were required on savings accounts, what would 
be the advantages and disadvantages -- including 
\ 
competitive effects --to consumers and to 
f inaneia1 inst it ut ions ? 
2. Assuming that a single method were required, which 
method is the most appropriate? Please indicate 
preferences and tha reasons for your preference 
with respect to frequency of compounding and 
crediting, method of calculating the balance on 
which interest is computed, such as low balance, 
LIFO, FIFO or day-of-deposit to day-of-withdrawal, 
and other terms. 

3. What are the advantages and disadvantages --
including cost and competitive considerations --
of permitting two or more methods of computation 
rather than a single method? 
During hearings conducted earlier this year by the Senate 
Subcommittee, concern was expressed that the wide variety of methods 
used in computing interest makes it impossible to devise a single 
annual rate that would provide an accurate basis for comparing yields 
on different savings plans. 
Variables ouch as the balance used in the computation of 
interest, grace periods, service charges and requirements for minimum 
balances can have a substantial effect on the yield received by a 
depositor. 
For example, the same hypothetical savings account could 
v 
yield interest ranging from about $30 to,$75 over a six-month period 
"sing the same annual rate but varying the other elements in the 
calculation. 
Public comment on these matters should be forwarded to the 
Secretary of the Board in Washington, 
A copy of the Board's order in this matter is attached. 

FEDERAL tlESERVE SYSTEM 
"Truth in Savings" 
A subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing 
and Urban Affairs in June held hearings on proposed "Truth in 
Savings" legislation (S. 1052). The legislation would require fi-
nancial institutions to disclose the "annual percentage rate" and 
other terras applicable to their savings plans. The testimony 
received at the hearing generally supported the concept of full and 
uniform disclosure as a means of assisting consumers to understand 
their accounts better and to enable them to shop among competing 
Plans. However, concern was cr.pressed that the multiplicity of 
Methods of computing interest, which may have a significant effect 
uPon the actual dollars earned depending upon activity patterns, 
it impossible to devise a single annual rate that would pro-
\ide an accurate basis for comparing different savings account plans. 
Although the annual rate may reflect differences in compounding 
Periods (continuous, daily, monthly, etc.), it would not be affected 
V the balances to which the rate is applied (e.g., low balance, 
fitst~in-first~out, last-in-first-out, day-of-deposit to day-of-
grace periods for deposits and withdrawals, require-
ments for minimum balances and end of period balances, service charges 
withdrawals and other factors. Several of these variables have 
e substantial 
effect on yield, depending upon the pattern of acti-
of nn individual's savings account transections. For example, 

. 4653 
a study has shown that a given set o£ Savings account transactions 
over a six month period could result in interest payments ranging from 
about #30 to over $75 using a six percent annual rate in each case 
but varying the other elements of the calculation. 
As a result of these concerns, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System has been requested by members of the 
Senate Committee to study the "feasibility and desirability of 
Requiring uniform r.ethods of interest rate computation on savings 
accounts." A requirement for uniform methods would make the 
interest rate the only variable, and would simplify disclosures 
Squired under any possible Truth in Savings legislation. In con-
nection with that study the Board desires to receive public 
comment on the following questions: 
1. If a single method of interest rate compu-
tation were required on savings accounts, what 
would be the advantages and disadvantages— 
\\• v 
including competitive effects—to consumers 
•'•'and to financial institutions? 
2. Assuming that a single method were re-
quired, which method is the most appropriate? 
Please indicate preferences and the reasons 
for your preference with respect to frequency 
of compounding and crediting, method of cal-
culating the balance on which interest is 
computed, such as low balance, LIFO, FIFO or 
day-of-deposit to day-of-withdrawal, and 
other terms. 

-3- 
- 4 6 5 4 
3* What Mte the advantages and disadvantages — 
including cost «hd competitive considerations— 
of permitting two or mote methods of computation 
rather than a single method? 
Comments on any of these questions and any other relevant 
comments or observations should be forwarded to the Secretary of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
D*C., 20551, by January 31, 1974. 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
(Signed) Chester I'eldberg 
Chester Feldberg 
Secretary 

4655 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
11/27/73 
MARINE MIDLAND BANKS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of American Dimensions, Inc. 
Marine Midland Banks, Inc., Buffalo, New York, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire directly all of the voting shares 
of American Dimensions, Inc., Irvine, California ("ADI") , and indirectly 
the voting shares of The Meairs Company, Riverside ("Company"), The Meairs 
In 
durance Agency, Riverside, and Ideal Escrow Service, Riverside ("Escrow"), 
an , 
1/ 
1 located in California. 
Company engages In both the origination and 
d i c i n g of mortgage loans, while Escrow performs the fiduciary service 
teceiving, holding and disbursing down payments and other funds deposited 
Purchasers in real estate transactions. Such activities have been deter-
mined by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), 
(3) 
(4)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
pfiw 
sons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
duly published (38 Federal Register 26155). The time for filing 
0nmients a n d views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, the seventh largest banking organization in New York, 
°ntr°ls ten banks with aggregate domestic deposits of $6.6 billion, repre-
entir*g 6.1 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
u 
UPon consummation of the proposal, Applicant is committed to divest 
elf of The Meairs Insurance Agency on or before January 1, 1974. 

4656 
-2-
banking and financial data are as of December 31, 1972, unless 
otherwise indicated.) Applicant also controls nonbanking subsidiaries 
GnSaged principally in equipment leasing, mortgage financing, data 
cessing for its affiliates, credit card activities, and international 
anking. Applicant's mortgage financing is conducted through its sub-
idiary banks and a nonbanking subsidiary, Marine Midland Realty Credit. 
originations and the servicing portfolio of Applicant are principally 
tGal estate in New York State, with the remainder concentrated in 
a« As of mid-1972, Applicant held only 0.2 per cent of all mort-
gages 
utstanding on income-producing properties in the Nation. It also 
about 0.4 per cent of the $38.5 billion in construction loans out-
standi 
•Ln8 in the country. 
AD I is a nonoperating holding company which owns no assets 
°th°* th 
. 
a n t h e shares of Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary. Company 
n2aged in the business of originating and servicing mortgage loans 
South 
n e m California and certain areas of Nevada and Arizona. Its 
m 
mortgage originations are confined to one-to-four family residences 
l9?2 rv 
' company originated a total volume of approximately $72 million 
* ^tRao 
i 
1/ 
K e loans and, based upon a servicing portfolio of $80 million, 
an 
approximate rank of 250th among all mortgage banking firms in the 
Ur>try 
T 
u 
* J-n the first quarter of 1971, Company originated 3 per cent of 
P*1A/va 
a mortgages in Las Vegas and 2.5 per cent in Riverside and San 
3/ 
N 
Sc*Vi . are data on construction loans are as of December 31, 1972. 
n8 Portfolio as of March 31, 1973. 

4657 
-3-
Bemardino Counties in California. Its market share was considerably 
lower in other counties of its service area. Given these market shares 
and the fact that Company's offices are separated from those of Applicant 
2,000 miles, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would not eliminate any existing competition nor foreclose 
Substantial future competition between Applicant and Company in the ori-
gination of mortgage loans in any relevant area. 
Escrow, with total assets of approximately $27,000, is one of 
^ licensed escrow companies operating in Riverside and San Bernardino 
c<mnM 
y 
"ties, California. 
Its fiduciary activities are those performed or 
Cartied on by a trust company under California law. Escrow's services 
delude the acceptance of down payments and loan funds advanced by the 
uyer and the mortgage lender, and the disbursement of money for taxes, 
in 
1/ 
Surance, and other expenses. 
While Applicant's subsidiary banks offer 
o w services to its loan customers in New York, no subsidiary of Ap-
plies 
*-ant performs an escrow service in California. Accordingly, the Board 
rerse effect on competition for escrow services in any relevant area. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation 
of th 
n e proposed transaction would result in any undue concentration of 
t^g Urces, unfair competition, unsound banking practices, or other adverse 
it\a 
Edition to the escrow companies, there are a number of title 
rance companies and commercial banks in the market which perform 
5/ ®aiBe service as Escrow. 
activity has previously been determined by the Board to be closely 
a P p l t 0 b a n k i n8» 
S e e Board Order of January 2, 1973, pertaining to 
Cation by Wells Fargo & Company, San Francisco, California, to acquire 
yc° Land Escrow, Ltd., Pasadena, California (38 Federal Register 1236). 
les that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an 

4658 
-4-
effects on the public interest. It is anticipated that ADI's affiliation 
with Applicant will provide Company with the financial resources and 
^nagcment personnel that will permit Company to strengthen and expand its 
listing mortgage banking business and thereby enable it to become a more 
8*Enifleant competitor in its local and regional markets. Moreover, 
it: is anticipated that ADI's affiliation with Applicant will provide 
^crow with the financial and managerial resources that will enable it to 
c°mpete more effectively with other land escrow firms and to improve as 
as broaden the services presently offered. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public inter-
est factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
Ac 
c°rdingly, the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
Subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to 
fch n 
e Board's authority to require such modification or termination of the 
C i t i e s of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
ind9 necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
tllG Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
Pt °vent evasion thereof. The transaction shall be made not later than 
nto 
e e months after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 

4659 
-5-
6xtended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York under delegated authority. 
6/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 27, 1973, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
^ehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
4G«0 
D F T H E 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/27/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O R R I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 27, 1973 
•Mr. William V. Skidmore 
Office of Management and Budget 
•Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Sir: 
Thank you for your memorandum of November 8, 1973, inquiring 
as to the views of the Board on certain proposed amendments to section 408 
of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. § 1730a). The Board understands 
that the primary thrust of the proposed amendments is to remove the exist-
ing exemption, applicable to holding companies controlling a single 
insured savings and loan association, from certain limitations upon 
the activities in which a holding company controlling two or more 
insured savings and loan associations may engage. 
While consideration of the circumstances that impelled the 
Board of Governors to urge application of the Bank Holding Company Act 
Provision to one bank holding companies enables the Board to appreciate 
fully the similar concerns of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board with 
respect to unitary savings and loan holding companies, present circum-
stances suggest that specific comment on the proposed amendments' to 
section 408 of the National Housing Act by this Board would be inappropriate 
at the present time. 
There is presently pending before the Board an application, 
•.nnder section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act: (12 U.S.C. 
§ 1843(c)(8)), by a bank holding company to acquire shares of a savings 
and loan association, presenting, as an issue of first impression, the 
Question whether the operation of a savings and loan association is "so 
closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a pro-
per incident thereto", within the meaning of section 4(c)(8), and therefore 

4661 
i 
\ 
o 
" | 
Mr. W i l l i a m V. Skidmore 
; 
a c t i v i t y in Which 
§ 225.4(a) of the Board s, R e S u ^ ^ o n Y U 
i b l e r ui c n aking on 
^ p u b l i s h e d notice or the a p p a t 
a n d o ^ 
^ 
^ 
d 
the general issue. By Ordur oaut 
b 
c n s n a y f ii e written 
that members of the public ana « u 
o 
t 
^ 
r e l a t i o n -
comments on the issues by Novembsr 30 1973. 
n ^ ^ 
^ 
g 
ship between the proposed air^nd^nc on 
o t h e r 4 and the timing of 
.application and rulemaking procee xng on he other, ^ 
^ 
^
^ 
2 8 > 
-
r
^
r
h
e
l
^
a
^
t
u
i
d 
be inappropriate to express any 
v i " ; on the proposed amendment at this time. 
rtnf it mav not be of assistance to you at 
t h i s time.^but^as always' appreciates your soliciation of its views. 
» 
Very truly yours, • 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4662 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
11/27/73 
D. H. BALDWIN COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
! 
D. H. Baldwin Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Central Colorado 
Bancorp, Inc., Colorado Springs, Colorado ("Bancorp"), and thereby 
indirectly to acquire State Bank of Greeley, Greeley, Colorado; Rocky 
Ford National Bank, Rocky Ford, Colorado; and Central Colorado Bank of 
Colorado Springs and The Academy Boulevard Bank of Colorado Springs, 
Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
ir* light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls six banks with combined deposits of $442.3 
Million, representing 7.4 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
Colorado, and ranks as the fifth largest banking organization in 
th® State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect 
acquisitions approved through October 31, 1973, including five new 
acquisitions approved by the Board on September 28, 1973.) Bancorp, 

_ 4 6 6 3 
-2-
thtough its four banking subsidiaries, controls $65.7 million in deposits 
in the State and ranks as the ninth largest banking organization in 
Colorado. The acquisition of Bancorp would increase Applicant's total 
deposits to $508 million, or 8.4 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State. Applicant would remain the fifth largest 
banking organization in Colorado, controlling a statewide network of 
ten banks. 
Bancorp's two subsidiary banks in the Colorado Springs banking 
Market control $56.6 million in deposits which represents 12.7 per cent 
o f the total commercial bank deposits in this market. Bancorp ranks as 
the fourth largest of 15 banking organizations in the market. Applicant's 
barest banking or nonbank financial subsidiary is 70 miles away in Denver, 
ar*d it does not appear that the proposed acquisition will eliminate any 
significant existing competition between Applicant's subsidiaries and 
those of Bancorp. Nor will the proposed acquisition increase the concen-
tration of the market. 
The rapid growth of the Colorado Springs area has made the 
Colorado Springs banking market an attractive market for foothold or 
^ 
entry. Applicant, as one of the few large banking organizations 
the State which is not present in the market, appears to have the capa-
bility to enter the market de novo. Therefore, some potential competition 
will be eliminated by this proposed acquisition. In view of the expected 
&rowth of the market, the number of independent banks therein which might 

46G4 
-3-
serve as a foothold entry, and the fact that two of the State's largest 
holding companies recently entered the market through acquisition of smaller 
banks, it does not appear that Applicant's indirect acquisition of Bancorp's 
two Colorado Springs banking subsidiaries would have a significantly adverse 
effect on future competition in the Colorado Springs area. 
Bancorp has one banking subsidiary in the Rocky Ford market 
area. This subsidiary, Rocky Ford National Bank (deposits of $6.7 million), 
ranks second of the four banks in the market with 21.5 per cent of total 
market deposits. Since Applicant's nearest banking or financial subsidiary 
is over 150 miles away, this proposed acquisition will result in no elimi-..' 
nation of existing competition between Rocky Ford National Bank and any 
subsidiary of Applicant. The area's lack of growth and the distance involved 
make it unlikely that Applicant would seek de novo entry into the market. 
lri the Board's judgment, there would be no elimination of substantial 
Potential competition through Applicant's acquisition of Bancorp's Rocky 
pord subsidiary. 
Bancorp's fourth banking subsidiary is the State Bank of Greeley 
('State Bank"), (deposits of $2.8 million), the smallest of six banks 
^ Greeley. Applicant's nearest banking subsidiary i3 located 
in Denver, 54 miles away; and there is no existing competition 
between Applicant's banking subsidiaries and the State Bank of Greeley. 
since the other five banks in Greeley are subsidiaries of the State's 
tbree largest holding companies and since the area is still in large 
Part agricultural, it is not a promising market for a de novo expansion. 

4665 
-4-
Applicant1s nonbank financial subsidiary, Empire Savings and 
Loan (assets of $307.6 million), has a small office in Greeley. Empire's 
Greeley office has total savings deposits of $13.2 million and ranks 
second of the savings and loan companies in Greeley. There is little 
direct competition between Empire and State Bank, however. State Bank's 
size and inability to extend real estate loans on a long term basis precludes 
it from any significant mortgage lending, which is Empire's main activity. 
Thus, the proposed indirect acquisition of State Bank will not result 
in the elimination of any significant existing competition. 
State Bank may eventually increase in size and develop into 
an active mortgage lender, but Applicant must divest its interest in Empire 
bY 1980 unless the Board approves retention of such interest prior to 
that date. It appears unlikely that any significant potential competition 
between State Bank and Empire will be eliminated through consummation 
°f the proposal. Empire has no offices and does not compete in the other 
Markets in which Bancorp's subsidiary banks are located. 
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiaries is 
satisfactory. Bancorp's need for funds for debt servicing, however, has 
n°t permitted sufficient retention of earnings by Bancorp's two Colorado 
Springs banks to permit them to maintain capital at adequate levels. 
view of Applicant's commitment to replace $1.8 million of Bancorp's 
debt with equity capital and to provide an additional $1.7 million to 
Bancorp to repay further indebtedness, the Board finds that financial 
c 
factors lend weight to approval of this application. 

4666 
-5-
There is no evidence indicating that the major banking needs 
of the Colorado Springs, Greeley, and Rocky Ford areas are not being 
adequately met by the existing institutions serving these markets. 
Applicant has the capability and has expressed the desire, however, to 
provide the capital for further improvements in the Bancorp subsidiaries, 
Improvements which are presently limited by Bancorp's capital position. 
Both of Bancorp's Colorado Springs subsidiaries have expressed a heed 
for building expansion programs which Applicant couid provide. Applicant 
also intends to provide a unififed and expanded computer program for all 
its subsidiaries. It should also be in position to provide the necessary 
expertise for such specialized services as trust services, agricultural 
leasing, and mortgage lending. In addition, Applicant can assist the 
smaller subsidiaries of Bancorp by handling an increased volume of overline 
Participation loans. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
of the communities to be served lend weight to approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that considerations relating to banking factors 
and convenience and needs of the communities to be served outweigh the 
slight adverse competitive effects of the proposed acquisition and that 
the proposed transaction is in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 

4667 
- 6 -
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"^ effective December 5, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Sheehan, Bucher, 
and Holland. Voting against this action: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

46G8 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR MITCHELL 
I would deny the application by D. H. Baldwin Company to 
acquire Central Colorado Bancorp, Inc. ("Bancorp"). It is my view 
that the proposed acquisition of Bancorp is without the positive public 
interest factors necessary to outweigh the transaction's adverse effects 
0r* competition. There is no showing that Bancorp's affiliation with 
applicant would benefit the convenience and needs of the communities 
Bancorp serves in such a manner as to offset the elimination of one of 
few local multibanlc organizations which competes effectively against 
^ e State's larger multibank holding companies. 
The majority recognizes that Applicant has the capability, 
Proximity, and Interest to enter the attractive and expanding Colorado 
sPrings market de novo; and, therefore, potential competition between 
applicant and Bancorp's lead bank would be eliminated. In addition, 
proposed acquisition will eliminate the ninth largest banking organi-
sation in the State, and one of the nine multibank organizations in 
^°lorado, as an independent competitor. 
Section 3(c)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c) (2)) provides that the Board may approve a proposal having such 
Substantial anticompetitive consequences only if the adverse effects are: 
. . . clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction in meeting the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 

-2-
_ 46G9 
In my opinion, the financial considerations relied upon by the majority 
as positive public interest factors are insufficient to counterbalance 
the adverse competitive effects of the proposed acquisition. 
Growth and earnings by Bancorp indicate it is an able competitor. 
At the same time, the rapid growth of its lead bank has strained the 
capital position of that bank, and the cash purchase of its Rocky 
Ford subsidiary has forced Bancorp to incur significant debt. However, 
Bancorp recently issued a $1.5 million, 10-year capital debenture to 
temporarily alleviate the need for capital funds, and its earnings 
appear sufficient to continue a satisfactory amortization of this 
debt. 
Bancorp's earnings record over the past two years places 
it among the top 50 per cent of all similarly sized banking organizations 
in the Tenth Federal Reserve District. The net income performance 
of its lead bank in Colorado Springs over the same period places it 
in the upper 25 per cent of all Tenth District Banks of similar size, 
in addition, the strong management of Bancorp's smaller bank subsidiaries 
enhances the outlook for a more significant contribution to Bancorp's 
consolidated income from these subsidiaries. 
Bancorp's strong earning record is evidence of its ability 
to manage its outstanding debt. It also is an indication that Bancorp, 
under favorable market conditions, could float an issue of equity 
securities to provide further capital. Thus, any financial difficulties 

4G70 
- 3 -
which Bancorp might experience can be remedied through the bank super-
visory process without resort to an acquisition—such as proposed 
here—under the Bank Holding Company Act. 
The evidence indicates that Bancorp can continue to be a 
strong regional competitor without affiliation with a larger banking 
°rganization. It can be expected to enter additional Colorado markets. 
All of the advantages which Applicant claims it can provide through 
this acquisition can eventually be provided by Bancorp itself, perhaps 
a somewhat slower timetable. I can filid no overwhelming need for 
Such improvements (a building expansion program or a greater volume 
o f overline participation loans) on an immediate basis as the majority 
Seems to contemplate. 
In short, I conclude that the anticompetitive effects of 
this proposal are not outweighed by "the probable effect of the transaction 
i n meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served." 
Accordingly, I would deny the application. 
Deceraber 5, 1973 

46 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I would deny the application by D. H. Baldwin Company to 
acquire Central Colorado Bancorp, Inc. ("Bancorp") and, thereby, 
to acquire indirectly four additional banks in Colorado. My views 
with respect to the expansion of D. H. Baldwin Company as a multibank 
holding company while it remains a manufacturing conglomerate have 
keen set forth in my dissenting statement to the Board's Order of 
September 28, 1973, wherein Applicant was permitted to acquire five 
additional banks in Colorado (1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin 752). 
I have held consistently that the opportunities for holding companies 
to engage in nonbanking activities authorized by Congress through 
the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act do not give 
Applicant the privilege to expand as a multibank holding company while 
retaining sizable nonbanking interests. 
I dissented to the Board's determination of June 14, 1973, 
that Applicant's activities relating to its musical instruments business 
he accorded indefinite grandfather privileges (1973 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 536). I still believe the history of the Act indicates 
the intention of Congress to keep the business of banking separate 
from other commercial enterprises and that Applicant, therefore, should 
he required to decide whether it wants to be a bank holding company 
°r whether it wishes to be in the manufacturing business. Since 

2-
4.672 
Applicant's further expansion as a multibank holding company through 
this proposed acquisition is contrary to the aim of Congress in passing 
the Act, I would deny this application. 
In addition, I concur with Governor Mitchell's statement 
that the acquisition of Bancorp is without the positive public interest 
factors necessary to outweigh the transaction's adverse effects on 
competition. The proposed acquisition will result in the elimination 
°f potential competition between Applicant and Bancorp's lead bank. 
It will mean the elimination of the ninth largest banking organization 
in the State—and one of nine multibank organizations in Colorado— 
a s an independent competitor. It will also permit Applicant (the only 
banking organization in the State to have the strong competitive 
advantage of affiliation with a savings and loan association) to exploit 
this advantage through further expansion. [See my dissent to the 
Board Order of September 28, 1973 (1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin 752), 
further discussion of this point.] In my opinion, the financial 
considerations relied upon by the majority as positive public interest 
factors under § 3(c)(2) of the Act are insufficient to counterbalance 
the adverse competitive effects of the proposed acquisition. 
Although the rapid growth of Bancorp's lead bank has strained 
capital position of that bank and the cash acquisition of its 
Kocky Ford subsidiary has forced Bancorp to incur significant debt, 
the favorable earnings record of Bancorp is an indication that it 
°an manage these problems. Over the last two years, Bancorp's lead 
bai*k in Colorado Springs has ranked in the upper 25 per cent of all 

4673 
- 3 -
Tenth District Banks of similar size in terms of its net income performance. 
The strong management of Bancorpfs other subsidiary banks gives every 
indication that they will be able to make a more significant contribution 
to Bancorpfs consolidated income in the future. 
Moreover, I have consistently held that it is not proper 
to use the Act as a means to acquire banks simply because they are 
experiencing soire financial difficulties. I stated in my dissents 
to the applications of State Street Boston Financial Corporation 
to acquire Union National Bank (1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin 526) 
and D. H. Baldwin Company to acquire five Colorado banks (1973 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 752) that I would look to other bank supervisory 
agencies to remedy such financial problems. Accordingly, any diffi-
xities which Bancorp might experience in maintaining adequate 
CaPital levels or amortizing its debt can and should be handled by the 
bank supervisory process. 
The evidence indicates that Bancorp can continue to be a 
strong regional competitor without affiliation with a larger holding 
Company. It can be expected to enter other Colorado markets. I can 
no advantages which Applicant would provide which would outweigh 
t^e adverse competitive effects of this proposal. 
Since this proposed acquisition would permit the expansion 
of 
a multibank holding company which retains significant manufacturing 
a n d other nonbanking interests in contravention of Congressional intent 

-4-
4674 
in enacting the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act and 
since the adverse competitive effects of the proposal are not outweighed 
by "the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served" as required by § 3(c)(2) 
of the Act, I would deny the application. 
December 5, 1973 

4675 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
11/27/73 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Permitting Revision in the Method of Acquisition 
of Arlington Bank of Commerce, Arlington, Texas 
By Order of March 23, 1973, the Board approved an appli-
cation by Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank holding 
c°Npany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, to acquire 
100 per c e n t o f t h e v o t l ng shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
th 
e successor by merger to Arlington Bank of Commerce, Arlington, Texas 
^ Arlington Bank") . 
Applicant requested on July 20, 1973, approval by the Board of a 
ch 
an8e in the manner of acquiring Arlington Bank from the merger means of 
^isition as stated in the application and as approved in the Board's 
rdcr» to the direct purchase of 30 per cent or more of the voting shares 
f Arlington Bank. Applicant stated that changing market conditions since 
^ approval of Its application to acquire Arlington Bank have made re-
^otlatlon 
of its original purchase agreement appropriate and that the 
P°sed direct method of acquiring Arlington Bank would result in con-
Nation of the proposed transaction in a manner most consistent with the 
s °f the original acquisition agreement. 
The Board has reviewed the terms of the proposed amended method 
acquisition and has concluded that it will not alter the banking factors 
°nsidered satisfactory by the Board in its Order of March 23, 1973. The 
8oard concludes, therefore, that the request should be granted. The Board's 

4676 
- 2 -
°rder of March 23, 1973, which has previously been amended so as to provide 
Applicant with additional time within which to consummate the transaction, 
is hereby amended to permit Applicant to acquire SO per cent or more of the 
v°ting shares of Arlington Bank by means of a direct purchase. 
1/ 
By Order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Shj ^°ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
GGhan, Bucher, and Holland, Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
OF 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 
11/27/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 3, 1973 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors determined on November 27, 1973, that 
purposes of services related to provision of currency and coin, 
^erto Rico and the Virgin Islands shall be deemed to be in or of the 
Second (New York) Federal Reserve District. Eecause a similar decision 
nad previously been made regarding check collection services, this 
effectively consolidates responsibility for all relevant Federal 
Reserve s 
York. 
Reserve services to these Islands at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
The Board would like to express appreciation to the personnel 
°f the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta for their cooperation in providing 
Currency and coin services to Puerto Rico since 1969. The Board will 
to the Presidents of the two Reserve Banks to assign personnel for 
Coordinating the transition in currency and coin services, and the 
°ard has asked chat it be informed by the president of the Federal 
eserve Bank of New York regarding the effective date of the change. 
Enclosed are copies of letters sent by the Board of Governors 
° banking officials and commercial banks in the Islands to notify 
hem of the Board's action. The letters state that interested oarties 
W3-U be notified of any operational changes by the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f New York. 
v 
An identical letter is being sent to Mr. Kimbrel of the 
ederal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Yours sincerely, 
/f 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
h 
^closures 

4 €78 
'.Ml Rt^ . • 
BOARD DP GOVERNORS 
Q F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 D 5 S I 
December 4, 1973 
Item No. 10 
11/27/73 
A N D R E W F\ B R I M M E R 
M E M B E R 
OP T H E 
B O A R D 
Mr. Salvador E. Casellas 
Secretary of the Treasury 
Fomento de Hacienda 
Old San Juan, Puerto Rico 
00905 
Dear Mr. Casellas: 
I am writing to inform you of a recent decision by'th'e Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System concerning the provision of 
currency and coin to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. As you will 
recall, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta has been responsible for 
• that function since the fall of 19 69. 3egining early next year, this 
responsibility will be assumed by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
The New York Bank has been providing check collection services all along, 
and the recent decision relating to currency and coin effectively consol-
idates in one institution the responsibility for the provision of all of 
these Federal Reserve services to the Islands. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta was originally asked to 
assume the assignment when the U. S. Treasury announced that, consistent 
with its reduced role in currency issuance, it intended to discontinue 
' Its maintenance of the currency depot in San Juan in mid-1969. At that 
time, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York did not have the capability 
to handle the task because of limitations on its facilities. The Atlanta 
Sank did have the capacity to step in and operate the San Juan cash 
facility. Since that time, by agreement, the commercial banks in the 
area have shared the cost of operating the cash facility. However, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta has continued to ship currency and com 
to and from the cash facility, to assist with contractual arrangements 
and to perform other services related to the provision of currency ana 
coin. In the meantime, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has con-
tinued to provide check collection services. 
This arrangement has worked out reasonably well, and the 
a v a i l a b l e evidence suggests that both Reserve Banks have been making 
valuable contributions to the economic and banking conditions on the 

4679 
Mr. Salvador E. Casellas 
| 
Islands. Nevertheless, the Board of 
G o v e r n o r s 
h a s concluded that it is 
in the long-tenr. best interests of provision or efficient services to 
the banking industry in Puerto Rico, as well as o effective coordina-
tion of the activities of the Federal Reserve System .o 
responsibilities under the direction of a single Reserve Bank. Because 
it his been the policy of the Federal Reserve System to serve euch area 
from the Reserve Bank in the city with which it has: the e l - o n o m i c 
and banking ties, the Board of Governors has consolidated the responsi 
bilities at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
I do not expect any service interruption or operating inconve-
nience to area banks as a result of this assignment. You will be kept 
informed by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York regarding arty detailed 
operational changes. 
Copies of this letter are being sent to each of the. commercial 
banks operating in Puerto Rico and to the officials listed below. 
Sincerely yours, 
cc: Mr. Juan A. Albors, Jr., President, Government Development Bank of 
Mr. Luis^"Martinez Almodovar, President, Puerto Rico Banker.' Association 
Mr! Guillermo Nigaglioni, Executive-Director, Puerto Rico Bankers 
Association 

4680 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
W A S H I N G T O N , Q. C. 
2 Q S S I 
A N D R E W F. B R I M M E R 
M E M B E R OF THE 
B O A R D 
11/27/73 
Item No. 11 
December 4, 1973 
Athniel C. Ottley, Lt. Governor and' 
Chairman of the Banking Board 
A Government House 
Virgin Islands 00301 
Dear Mr. Ottley: 
I would like to inform you that the Board of Governors pf,~ 
Federal Reserve System determined on November 27, 1973, that for 
the purpose of the provision of currency and coin, Puerto Rico and 
t^e Virgin Islands shall be classified as part of the Second (New York) 
federal Reserve District. A similar decision had previously been 
^de in regard to the provision of check collection services, and 
current decision relating to currency and coin effectively consoli-
dates the responsibility for provision of all cf these Federal Reserve ^ 
services at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
The significance of this change to the Virgin Islands banks, 
^st of which are already being served entirely by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, is that it should facilitate their use of the cash 
f a c i l ity in San Juan, Puerto Rico. However, practical arrangements or 
Such use have not yet been worked out, and you may expect to receive 
futther» information from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at a 
I do not expect any interruption of Federal Reserve services 
°r any inconvenience to Virgin Island banks as a result of this 
assignraent> 
Copies of this letter are being sent to each of the commer-
cial banks operating in the Virgin Islands. 
Sincerely yours 

of cot,;.. 
l i l t 
BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
11/27/73 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 27, 1973 
\ 
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Frank E. M o r r i s 
President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear M r . M o r r i s : 
<% 
The Board of Governors acted today to disapprove the 
pending reduction in your Bank's discount rate from 7 - 1 / 2 to 
7 - 1 / 4 per cent voted by your board of directors at their meeting 
on November 26, 1973. 
The Board continued to feel that a 
reduction in the discount rate would not be timely. 
In addition to 
the factors mentioned in my letter of November 15, the Board 
noted that the monetary aggregates have strengthened further 
recently. 
The m e m b e r s of the Board have asked m e to express 
their appreciation for the views communicated by your Bank's 
directors in taking their action to reduce the discount rate. 
Yours sincerely, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
or 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
Item No. 13 
11/27/73 
Correspondence 
residents of the 
v, 
Federal Reserve Bank-Sx 
roiQ- 
Norm and Bernard \ K 
/ 
l\J 
\ J 
y • 
4(> 
Date November 27, 1971 
Subject: 
Board Discount Rate Action 
on November 27. 1973 
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
The Board voted today to disapprove a pending action by 
one Reserve Bank to reduce the discount rate from 7 - 1 / 2 to 7 - 1 / 4 
per cent. 
The substance of a letter outlining the Board's reasons 
for its decision follows: 
The Board continued to feel that a reduction in 
the discount rate would not be timely. 
In addition 
to the factors mentioned in my letter of November 15, 
the Board noted that the monetary aggregates have 
strengthened further recently. 
: 
f 
i 
i 
-
i 
j 

4683 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K 
or BOSTON 
Item No. 14 
11/27/73 
JAMFS S. OUESENBERRY 
CIIAIPMAN OF THC (3OAF<D 
BOSTON, M A S S A C H U S E T T S 0210 6 
TELEPHONE (617) 426-7IOO 
December 4, 1973 
Mr. Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
Board of Governors of the 
Fe d e r a 1 Re e rve Sy s t em 
Wa s 11 i ng to n , D. C. 2 05 51 
Dea r Mr. Fe 1 db e r g: 
In your letter of November 15 you requested the directors 
of the Federal. Reserve Bank of Boston to explain their roc ent 
recommendation for e, re.uuctJ.cn in the discount rate. 
The 
attached statement has been approved by the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Sincerely, 
j ^ ^ ^ ^ Q L j 
-"I 
{/James S. Duesenberry 

REPLY TO FEDERALJ£SEKV£ J;>a\}V).iir^lHNG 
BOARD OF PIRECTORS * P R O P P S A i i l i S C C h l N T . JIATK 
Even before the oil embargo, the Directors of this Bank in common 
Vjltli most economic forecast ers expected a growth recession in 1974. 
p 
, 
vesldential construction had been declining for the past three quarters 
dl'd building permits indicate that the weakness in residential housing 
continue into .1974. There had also been considerable softening 
ln consumer durables •— particularly automobiles. Moderating the 
Verity of the expected recession were three offsetting factors. 
tineas fixed investment.: was expected to remain strong as the economy 
Gained under capacity limitations. Inventory decumulation, a key 
G] p. 
ment in past recessions, would be avoided since, industry had not 
bUj i -up large stocks. Finally, net exports which nad been a major 
Co 
"*tributor to growth in previous quarters were expected to remain 
stronc, 
Now even the most: optimistic forecaster, Data Resources, Inc., 
Edicts negligible output growth in the first half of 1974 with the 
'"RPIoyment rate rising to 6 percent by year-end. The Directors of 
Bank are in accord with this downward-revised forecast. In the 
Rrni, the energy shortage will have a negative impact on both 
prod 
Ending and production. Effective productive capacity will be cut 
in i , 
industries unable to obtain sufficient energy sources. At the same 
^ I Tn 
e > the energy shortage and anxieties about shortages will reduce 
Phases of a wide variety of energy-consuming products, such as 
W o 
automobiles, private aircraft, frost-free refrigerators, 

4 G 8 5 
nir conditioners, and self-eleavilng ovens. These effects have already 
keen reflected in the dramatic declines in the stock market and in 
'l^ge-auto sales. While it is not clear whether the near-term decline 
production will exceed the reduction in sales, both factors will 
bjing lower output, employment, and income. 
By the second half of 19 74, however, we believe the downward 
I t)V 
assure on sales will be magnified as the effects of lower employment 
ail<* income are diffused widely throughout all areas of the economy. 
n t-hc other hand, there are reasons to expect that supply limitations 
Cr} 
uUsed by the energy shortgage will diminish over time. Both public 
^ private policies to deal with energy scarcities will become 
°r° effective and hopefully the oil embargo will have ended. Thus, 
by f-i 
ttlc- end of next year, wo would expect the cumulative reductions 
ill r\ „ 
remand to exceed the energy-induced reductions in output capability. 
We do not believe that a major reduction in long-term interest is 
Poq O •, 
, 
l|Ue or desirable at this time but we do feel that a moderate 
ine .in short-term rates would have a significant effect on residential 
lGtruction. This increased housing demand in 1974 can help to partially 
W °re the decline in total spending resulting from the general 
V^j Gning of the economy and the energy shortage. Because of the lagged 
Sact of current policy actions, an immediate, modest move toward 
is needed to insure an adequate supply of mortgage funds in 
3econd half of 19/4. We are aware that the current, rate of price 
case is excessive. In our judgment, however, these Inflationary 
litres are rooted in specific external causes and will not be 

4 86 
Opened by monetary policy without unacceptable increases in unemployment, 
°yond those increases already under way. Additional housing need not 
| 
e inflationary but rather can help restore high levels of demand in 
1974 and 1975, as the supply bottlenecks caused by the energy 
Crjsis subside. 
The Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston are not committed 
0 a lowering of the discount rate at this time as the best way of 
beating an easing of monetary policy. Our intention instead is to 
0 t\r 
tunicate to the Board of Governors our conviction that short-term 
in t pv 
^est rates should be lowered, thereby assuring an ample supply of 
t foe the economy in the difficult year ahead. 
