MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 24, 1973 
It is proposed to p X ciCG in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
mmutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 6 Amendment to Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 24, 19 73. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia and Miss Brown, Technical Assistants, 
Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

_ £ 8 0 4 
7/24/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of PanNational Group, Inc., El Paso, Texas, to acquire shares 
of the successor by merger to Citizens National Bank of Austin, Austin, 
Texas, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of PanNational 
Group, Inc., El Paso, Texas, to acquire shares of the successor by 
merger to Bassett National Bank of El Paso, and authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Barnett 
Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of 
The First National Bank of Bay Harbor Islands, Bay Harbor Islands, 
Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First & Merchants Corporation. With a memorandum of July 20, 
the Legal Division submitted a draft order reflecting the Board's 
approval, on June 25, 1973, of the application of First & Merchants 
Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares of the successor by 
me*"ger to Mountain Trust Bank, Roanoke, Virginia. The Division noted 
that after the Board's action, but prior to drafting the order, written 
comments had been received from the Department of Justice opposing the 
Proposed transaction, and the applicant had made responding comments. 

2805 
7/24/73 
-3-
The staff believed that the Board's previous discussion had been fair 
and complete and had covered all of the relevant issues that had been 
raised. 
The Board authorized issuance of the order. A copy, along with 
a copy of Governor Daane's concurring statement, is attached under 
jtemj^o. 4. In an action related to the bank holding company application, 
the Board had also on June 25, 1973, approved the application of Mountain 
Bank, Vinton, Virginia, for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 5. 
Clearing and transfer agents. Pursuant to action on July 12, 1973, 
the Board had sent a letter on July 13 to the Subcommittee on Securities 
°f the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs responding 
to its request for the Board's views on S. 2058, a bill relating to regu-
lation of clearing agencies and transfer agents. Although in past years 
the Board had supported bills granting rule-writing powers in this area 
to the Securities and Exchange Commission, with enforcement vested in 
the banking agencies as to clearing agencies that are banks, in the 
July 13 letter the Board recommended that concurrence of the appropriate 
hanking agency be required before the SEC adopted any rule applying to 
a clearing agency (depository) that is a bank. This position represented 
a step in the direction of the view of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Hew York and the Banking and Securities Industry Committee (BASIC) that 
rule writing with respect to depositories that are banks should be reserved 

zsm 
7/24/73 
-4-
t 0 the banking agencies. The Reserve Bank and BASIC believed that 
customers of depositories needed assurance that the securities they 
deposited were safe and that they would feel more confident if they 
knew that the banking agencies were writing the rules. 
In a memorandum of July 23, 1973, Mr. Cardon requested that 
the Board authorize him to indicate to the staff of the Senate 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs that the Board would 
agree to a proposed compromise regarding the division of rule-writing 
Powers under S. 2058. The Committee was considering, at staff level, 
an amendment to the bill transferring from the SEC to the appropriate 
banking agencies power to write rules regarding safeguarding of securities 
and funds in the control or custody of any clearing agency that is a 
bank. Similarly, the provisions that now authorized the SEC to determine, 
a s a condition of registration, whether a clearing agency's rules provide 
safeguards for securities and funds in its custody would be amended to 
Vest that authority in the appropriate banking agency where the agency 
l s a bank. The SEC would have power to write other rules affecting a 
clearing agency that is a member bank, but only after consulting with 
the Board in order that such rules would accord with both sound banking 
Practices and a sound system for the prompt and accurate processing and 
Settlement of securities transactions. 
Discussion at today's meeting brought out that the Committee staff 
believed that the bill would fail of enactment if the Board opposed the 

2807 
7/24/73 
-5-
compromise. It was also indicated that in a conversation with Messrs. 
Cardon and Solomon, a representative of BASIC, who had testified on the 
bill for that organization, had expressed the view that BASIC could 
live with the proposed compromise. 
Governor Sheehan stated that he strenuously objected to the 
compromise. He had voted against the position expressed in the July 13 
letter because it did not advocate placing the entire rule-writing 
authority with the banking agencies so far as banks were concerned. The 
compromise now proposed, in his view, would further diminish the scope 
°f authority to be given the banking agencies. Moreover, when the 
Position stated in the July 13 letter had been considered by the Board, 
a representative of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had participated 
l n the discussion, and he believed that the Bank should be similarly 
represented before any decision was reached regarding the compromise. 
0nly this morning he had had a conversation with an officer of the 
New York Reserve Bank, who indicated that the Bank had not changed its 
Position, and urged that the Board at least adhere to the recommendation 
i n its July 13 letter. Governor Sheehan regarded the proposed compromise 
a s a possible minimal fall-back position when the legislative proposal 
•reached the House. 
Governor Bucher said that he had serious reservations regarding 
the effectiveness of the SEC in writing rules of the kind in question. 
lIe would prefer to see the SEC withdraw from this area so far as banks 
Were concerned. 

7/24/73 
-6-
After further discussion, the Board voted, Governors Sheehan 
and Bucher dissenting, to authorize Mr. Cardon to indicate to the 
Committee staff that the Board would agree to the proposed compromise. 
Regulation Q. On July 5, 19 73, the Board, among other actions 
under Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, adopted new rules with respect 
to payment of time deposits before maturity. On July 18 the Board 
agreed tentatively that the new early withdrawal rules should apply to 
the following types of time deposit contracts: (a) contracts entered 
into after July 5; (b) contracts amended after July 5 so as to increase 
the rate of interest payable; (c) contracts amended after July 5 so as 
to extend the maturity of the deposit; and (d) contracts renewed after 
July 5, whether by automatic renewal or otherwise. All other time 
deposit contracts would be subject to the old "hardship" rule. On July 18 
the Board also tentatively agreed to propose for comment an amendment 
to Regulation Q that would treat all time deposit conversions as payments 
before maturity. Such an amendment, if adopted, would supersede a 
number of the Board's present published interpretations. 
In a memorandum of July 20, 1973, the Legal Division indicated 
that the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation had 
been apprised of the Board's proposals, and that favorable reactions 
had been expressed. A suggestion had been made during the meeting of 
the Committee that public comment be invited also on a proposal to require 
any advertisement for time deposits to include clear and conspicuous 
Notice that Federal law prohibits a member bank from paying a time deposit 

- £ 8 0 9 
7/24/73 
-7-
before maturity unless certain interest is forfeited. Attached to 
the memorandum were draft Federal Register notices to implement the 
Proposed actions. Copies of the draft notices had been sent to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, on the understanding that if 
the Board approved the present proposals, the Corporation would take 
Parallel action. 
Discussion at today's meeting reflected a view that additional 
analysis should be made of the proposal regarding advertisement for 
time deposits. 
The Board unanimously approved (a) the amendment to Regulation Q 
regarding the application of the new early-withdrawal rules, effective 
immediately; and (b) publication for comment of the proposal regarding 
treatment of certain amendments to time deposit contracts. Attached 
Under Item No. 6 are copies of the press release issued in this connection 
and of the pertinent Federal Register notices. 
In a related matter, Chairman Burns cited reasons in support of 
his proposal that a limitation of 5 per cent of total deposits be placed 
° n the issuance by member banks of four-year certificates of deposit 
Without interest rate ceiling, the new instrument that had been permitted 
under the actions announced on July 5 by the various Federal supervisory 
a8encies. Under the rules of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, savings 
and loan associations under its jurisdiction were subject to a limitation 
5 per cent of their share accounts with respect to issuance of such 
Certificates. 

. 2810 
7/24/73 
-8-
It was understood that the staff would explore considerations 
related to Chairman Burns' proposal and submit recommendations to the 
Board at an early date. 
The meeting then recessed in order that members of the Board 
and staff might meet with representatives of the Government Securities 
Committee of the Securities Industry Association. The meeting reconvened 
at 12:25 p.m. in the Board Room with Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Sheehan, and Bucher present and appropriate staff members in 
attendance. 
Redwood Bancorp. In a memorandum of June 19, 1973, the Divisions 
°f Research and Statistics and Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the application of Redwood Bancorp, San Rafael, California, 
(1) to acquire indirectly through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Redwood 
National Mortgage Company, assets of Montgomery Street Mortgage Corporation, 
San Francisco, California, and (2) to acquire directly shares of West 
Coast Security Insurance Agency, Inc., also of San Francisco. The latter 
two organizations operate as subsidiaries of T.U.P., Inc., also of 
san Francisco. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
jtegLNo. 7. The Board also unanimously approved a letter to Redwood 
Bancorp, with changes from a draft that the staff had submitted, regarding 
the corporation's financial and managerial resources. A copy of the 
better is attached as Item No. 8. 

2811 
7/24/73 
-9-
(Note: The order implementing the Board's approval of the 
application of Redwood Bancorp included a requirement that the transaction 
be consummated not later than three months after the effective date of 
the order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
ihe inclusion of this language reflected the Board's approval of a 
recommendation by the Legal Division in a memorandum of July 18, 1973, 
that such a limitation be included not only in the order with respect 
to the Redwood Bancorp application but also in every subsequent order 
issued by the Board approving an application under section 4(c)(8) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act.) 
South Carolina National Corporation. In a memorandum of July 6, 
73, the Divisions of Research and Statistics and Supervision and Regu-
lation recommended approval of the application of South Carolina National 
Corporation, Columbia, South Carolina, to acquire shares of Provident 
Financial Corporation, Sanford, North Carolina. Other documentation 
deluded a memorandum of July 19 in which the Division of Research and 
Statistics explored questions that had been raised by the Board whether 
acquisitions of finance companies might enable a holding company to 
shift its bank instalment loan customers to its consumer finance subsidiary 
1n order to earn a higher net yield on its instalment loans. The Division 
concluded that there was little likelihood of such a development with 
respect to the acquisition proposed by South Carolina National Corporation. 

2812 
7/24/73 
-10-
The application was approved unanimously. It was understood 
that documents to implement this decision would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2813 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/24/73* 1 
PANNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
PanNational Group, Inc., El Paso, Texas, a bank holding company 
n the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
*« 
s approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
acquire 1 A n 
J-uu per cent of the voting shares ,less directors 'qualifying shares , 
t h e Successor by merger to the Citizens National Bank of Austin, Austin, 
oanic 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
6*CePt ac? 
a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. 
SJ-y, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization 
is t r e ated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
PetSons t 
c o submit comments and views, has been given in accordance xd.th 
3(b) of H 
A 
U e Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
Board k 
nas considered the application and all comments received in light 
e Actors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(c)). 
A p p l i c a n t , t h e thirteenth largest bank holding company in 
with Applicant's application to become a bank holding 
dlv e3 t
aJ p r o v e d by t h e B o a r d on February 29, 1972, Applicant was required 
hllbar*k s k 8 2
8
p
6
r 
C 6 n t i n t e r e s t i n Charles Bassett Center, Inc. (a 
i Per c
 ubsidiary engaged in shopping center developments) and its 
t°an f o r * i n t e r e s t i n Darbyshire Steel Company, Inc. (acquired through 
6quited di° S U r e l n 1 9 7 2 ) * 
Applicant has idvised the Board that the 
ivesture will tafce ^ / U c c b y F e b r uary 1974. 

2814 
TeXas, controls two banks with total deposits of $294 m i l l i o n ^ 
^Presenting less than one per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
j 
n 
State. Bank is the sixth largest of 14 commercial banks in the 
Austin banking market controlling deposits of approximately $40.3 million 
Of O , 
j.b per cent of the deposits of commercial banks in this market. 
(AXl ^miking data are as of December 31, 1972.) 
At the present time, Applicant is not represented in the 
^Ustin area. Applicant's subsidiary banks are located in the El Paso 
^rket, approximately 600 miles west of Austin. No competition exists 
etl;een Bank and any of the Applicant's subsidiary banks and, in view 
of ti 
n e distance separating these banks and Texas law prohibiting branching, 
aPpears unlikely that significant competition would develop in the forseeable 
^tur 
Moreover, acquisition of Bank by Applicant should have a pro-
^Pstitive effect on the Austin banking market in which the four 
a r § e s t banks each hold more than $180 million of deposits and, in the 
gate, control approximately 85 per cent of the deposits of the 
c°ttmercial banks in that market. Applicant's entry into the Austin 
^rke 
through acquisition of Bank may result in Bank improving its 
position vis a vis these largest banks in that market and thereby 
U c e the high concentration of banking resources in the Austin market. 
iTlJ^--
appn addition to the present application, Applicant has also filed 
Pt0p
 Cations to acquire two other banks. Consummation of all three 
*n<l ® a l s will mean that Applicant will control $352 million in deposits 
1 1 1 rank thirteenth in the State. 

2815 
-3-
Financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
subsidiary banks, and Bank are satisfactory and future prospects 
aPpear favorable. Prospects for economic growth in Applicants home 
market appear good, as do the prospects in the Austin area. Although the 
record fails to indicate that the banking needs of residents of the 
Austin area are going unserved, affiliation of Bank with Applicant could 
Provide Bank's customers with some services not now being offered by 
and therefore convenience and needs considerations appear consistent 
^th approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
^ the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
easons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
^ i s Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
8 Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
W the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective July 24, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
or 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^EAL) 
°tir*g~for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
l^ehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer and 
fI°Uand. 

ZXU6 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/24/73 
PAN NATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
PanNational Group, Inc., El Paso, Texas, a bank holding company 
Within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
1/ 
acquire 69.9 per cent 
of the voting shares of the successor by merger 
^ Bassett National Bank of El Paso, El Paso, Texas ("Bank"). The bank 
into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means 
t o facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization is 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
li-ght of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.SoC. 1842(c)). 
1/ Applicant presently owns 30.07 per cent of the voting shares of 
Bank. i n connection with Applicant's application to become a bank 
folding company approved by the Board on February 29, 1972, Applicant 
W as required to divest its 28.A per cent interest in Charles Bassett 
Center, Inc. (a nonbank subsidiary engaged in shopping center develop 
and its 12 per cent interest in Darbyshire Steel Company, Inc. 
(acquired through loan foreclosure in 1972). Applicant has advised 
the Board that the required divestiture will take place by February 
1974. 

- 2 -
2817 
Applicant, the thirteenth largest bank holding company in Texas, 
controls two banks with total deposits of approximately $294 million 
representing less than 1 per cent of total commercial bank deposits- in 
the State, and approximately 37 per cent of commercial bank deposits in 
the El Paso banking market. Bank is the seventh largest of 13 banks in 
the El Paso market, controlling approximately $20 million (or 2.4 per 
cent) of the deposits in that market. 
(All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1972.) The proposed acquisition vill'not change 
Applicant's rank or percentage of deposits controlled among bank holding 
2/ 
companies in the State. 
Bank has been controlled by Applicant and its subsidiaries 
and predecessors since principals „of Applicant 
..Baak in 
19&1. In addition to the 30.1 per cent of Bank's common stock now 
held by Applicant, common shareholders of Applicant and Bank hold an 
ad<Htional 40.4 per cent of Bank. Approval of the application, there-
fore, will not change the control of commercial bank deposits in El 
paso, as Applicant, its subsidiaries or predecessors, have controlled 
Bank for 12 years and the prospects for disaffiliation appear unlikely. 
We nee, the acquisition will not likely have an effect on either present 
0 r future competition. 
& 
In addition to the present application, Applicant has also filed 
aPplications to acquire two other banks. Consummation of all three 
Proposals will mean that Applicant will control $352 million in deposits 
will . still rank thirteenth in the State. 

" 2818 
r — 
-3-
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its sub-
sidiaries and Bank appear satisfactory and are consistent vith approval. 
Future prospects of all appear favorable in view of the expected con-
tinuation of economic expansion in the El Paso area. To the extent 
acqui sition by Applicant vill enable Bank to more fully draw upon the 
specialized services, managerial expertise and larger resources of 
Applicant, and, thereby, provide these facilities to its service area, 
convenience and needs considerations are consistent vith approval. 
*t is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consum-
mated ( a ) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
dQte of this Order of (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to 
legated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 24, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting 
for thla notion: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
^eehan, and Bucher. Absent nrid not voting: Governors Brimmer and 
H°Uand. 

2819 
Item No. 3 
7/24/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPliad for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 percent or more of the voting shares of The 
Pirst National Bank of Bay Harbor Islands, Bay Harbor Islands, Florida 
("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e t S o n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
l i g h t 
the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (.12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 41 banks with total deposits of $1.3 billion, 
^Presenting approximately 7 percent of total deposits of commercial banks 
U ^ e State, and is the second largest banking organization in Florida. 
banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect holding company 
^ i s i t i o n s approved as of June 30, 1973, including four new acquisitions 
S l n e e January 1, 1973.) The acquisition of Bank (deposits of $28.6 
would increase Applicant's share of the total State deposits by 
Usa t-u 
ctlan .2 percent, and it would remain the second largest banking 
°r&aniZation in Florida. 

-2-
2820 
Bank is located in the Greater Miami Banking Market (the relevant 
Market) where it controls .6 percent of market deposits. Applicant pres-
ently operates 7 of the 98 banks in the Greater Miami area. It is the 
fifth largest of 41 banking organizations represented in the market and 
holds but 4.8 percent of the total market deposits. Thus, consummation 
the proposal will not place Applicant in a dominant position in the 
a r ea nor have any adverse effect on competing area banks. 
Applicant^ nearest banking subsidiary, Barnett Bank of Miami 
®each, i s located 8 miles south of Bank. Bank draws only a minimal amount 
its deposits from the service area of this subsidiary. In view of 
tlle distance between Bank and this subsidiary, the heavy traffic con-
a t i o n , and the number of intervening banks, the Board concludes that 
10 significant competition would be eliminated upon consummation of the 
pr°Posal. Thus, competitive considerations are consistent with approval 
application. 
of the 
Applicant has recently injected capital into certain of its 
8u,0aidiary banks and has increased its own equity capital by converting 
$6 7 
" 
Million of debentures into common stock. It has also recently 
°mPleted a public stock offering. 
In light of these actions, the Board 
inrfo 
the financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
ksidiaries, and Bank as satisfactory; and prospects for each are 
favorable. 
Applicant intends to increase the volume and range of Bank's 
n<iing services and, in an area of increasing local construction, make 

2821 
-3-
Bank a more aggressive competitor in the origination of construction 
ai*d mortgage loans. Applicant will sever Bank's indirect affiliation with 
a savings and loan association and, thus, promote a more aggressive lend-
*nS policy for Bank. Applicant will also cause Bank to seek trust pox^ers 
offer trust services. Accordingly, considerations relating to con-
Ve*Uence and needs of the communities to be served are consistent with 
a n d lend weight to approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the 
aPplication 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
Masons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rc*er or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
^dfcr, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,1/ effective July 24, 1973. 
Chester E. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
—_______ 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
®ehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer and 

; 2822 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
FIRST & MERCHANTS CORPORATION 
7/24/73 
Ggder Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First & Merchants Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U'S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
f the successor by merger to Mountain Trust Bank, Roanoke, Virginia 
("fi 
i 
a n k ). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
*CePt as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of 
a 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares of the suc-
r organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of 
the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
>0ns to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
3| 
the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired. 
°ard has considered the application and all comments received in 
o t the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), 
and finds that: 
Applicant controls three subsidiary banks with aggregate 
^POgjf.,, 
a of $1.0 billion, is the third largest banking organization in 
and holds 9.4 per cent of all commercial bank deposits in the 
(A 
thi, 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1972.) Bank is the 
largest of seven banks operating in the Roanoke market, operates 

2823 
-2-
nl,tle offices, and holds deposits of approximately $80 million, or 
approximately 14 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the Roanoke 
SttSA, the relevant market. 
The Roanoke SMSA is expanding and is expected to show favorable 
growth even though the population of the city proper has been 
^lining in recent years. Bank is headquartered in the do^Titown area. 
Th 
e banking alternatives in the SMSA now include banking offices of five 
Virginia's top twelve banking organizations. Dominion Bankshares 
lead bank, First National Exchange Bank, controls nearly 47 per cent of 
Market, up from about 43 per cent a year ago. Colonial American 
is the second largest bank and controls nearly 20 per cent of 
* a r k e t deposits. 
Applicant has no banking offices in the Roanoke market. The 
office of any banking subsidiary of Applicant to Bank is in the 
ity o f Bedford, approximately 28 miles east of Bank. There is no 
Pt^Qp 
er*t competition between any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries and 
Banj. and little likelihood that future competition would develop in view 
of t, 
n e fact that the Bedford market is effectively separated from the 
Ho 
a^oke market by the Blue Ridge Mountains, and Applicant's banking sub-
aries are precluded from branching into the Roanoke market by 
uia s restrictive branching laws. 

28Z4 
-3-
> 
The United States Department of Justice has commented that, 
in its opiriion, the proposed acquisition would have significantly adverse 
c°mpetitive effects. In the Department's view, this acquisition would 
ol j . 
n a t e existing competition between Applicant's mortgage company 
^ d i a r i e s and Bank in mortgage lending and mortgage banking, remove 
p°tential competition of Applicant as a likely de novo entrant into the . . 
R°anoke banking market, further entrench the existing concentrated 
niarket o* 
structure in Roanoke, and adversely affect the development of a 
competitive banking structure in Virginia by removing one of the 
W remaining large independent banks capable of anchoring the formation 
of a 
additional bank holding company either as a lead bank or as a 
siBnificant m e r a b e r t h e r e o f # 
For the reasons hereinafter stated, the Board does not believe 
that co 
consummation of the proposal would have significant adverse effects 
c°mpetition. To the contrary, the Board believes that the proposed 
8ition may possibly have salutary effects on competition in the Roanoke 
b y strengthening Banks'managerial and financial resources enabling 
it t o 
compete more effectively with the dominant bank in the market which 
cently made significant gains in market share. 
Applicant does compete directly with Bank in the first mortgage 
e t through Applicant's subsidiary, First Mortgage Corporation, Richmond 
a ("FMC"), which has a branch in Roanoke. However, the combined 
snare of first mortgage loans for FMC and Bank in the Roanoke market 
d to be approximately 5 per cent. The Board does not regard as 

2825 
-3-
si8nlficant possible elimination of competition between FMC and Bank in this 
Product line. 
It is possible that Applicant might enter the Roanoke market 
trough the formation of a new bank, if the application were not approved 
Ievertheless, the Board is inclined to discount the significance of any 
p°ssibie adverse effect on potential competition in any relevant area for 
ttlQ 
Masons hereinafter stated. First, the complexion of banking com-
P e t i t i o n i n the Roanoke market has been affected by recent developments. 
0 b^nk holding companies have received permission to enter that market 
potentially increasing the number of bank competitors to eight. 
the nfi 
ew subsidiary bank of one of these holding companies, First Virginia 
^kgh 
ares Corp., has already commenced operations. As a result both of 
en* y and additional branching by existing banks in the market, the 
Poplli 
i o n per banking office in the Roanoke market is now below the 
atewide average. 
Second, Bank does not have the potential, in the Board's 
to be the lead bank in developing a new regional bank holding 
CoinPanv 
t 
y' its management depth appears to be too thin for such an under-
n8» and its financial resources are already strained to capacity. 
Sample, Bank's loan-to-deposit ratio, at approximately 80 per cent, 
A above average, and its loan portfolio is aggressively committed 

in the area of construction lending. Moreover, Bank has virtually no 
correspondent business and is therefore an unlikely organizer of a 
new holding company. The Board finds it difficult to conclude that 
continuation of Bank as an independent bank would significantly improve 
the chances for formation of a new bank holding company within the near 
future, and believes that there is not adequate probability of such a 
development to justify denial of Bank's opportunity to affiliate with an 
listing holding company. 
. Furthermore, in view of the significant increase in the market share 
the largest bank in the market during the past year, the Board 
believes that the immediate entry of a strong competitor such as Applicant 
m ay possibly assist, rather than hinder, the deconcentration of banking 
Resources in the market at this time. 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition should therefore have no 
S:i-gnifleant adverse effects on existing or potential competition in any 
relevant area, and competitive factors are viewed by the Board as being 
insistent 
with approval of the application._ 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
**ank and of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks are regarded as 
Satisfactory. An improvement in Bank's capital position might be 
i/ In the Board's judgment, this application presents a different set of 
actors, as discussed in the text, than those that led the Board to deny the 
^Plication of Virginia National Bankshares, Inc., Norfolk, Virginia, for 
PProval to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
Colonial-American National Bank of Roanoke. (1972 Federal Reserve 
^U-Uetin 494.) The attractiveness of Roanoke to de novo entry was 
J-atively greater at the time of that application than at present, 
Colonial-American had prime capability of being the lead bank in its 
bank holding company system, should it choose to form one, from the 
andpoint of its managerial and financial resources and significant 
Respondent business. Furthermore, the combined market share of first 
jvj rt8age loans for Virginia National Bank's mortgage banking subsidiary, 
Investment Corporation, and Colonial-American in the Roanoke 
th 
appeared to be considerably larger, at approximately 10 per cent, 
that of FMC and Bank. 

; „ 2827 
-6-
desirable in view of its aggressive posture as a lender, and the Board 
views favorably the undertaking of Applicant to invest additional capital 
^ Bank upon its acquisition by Applicant. Considerations relating to 
managerial and financial resources lend some weight in favor of approval 
the application. There is no evidence that the major banking needs 
o f the Roanoke SMSA are not being adequately served at present. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served are viewed as being consistent with approval. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective July 26, 1973: 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^/Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
dimmer, Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(SEAL) 

CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR DAANE 
I concur in the Board's action approving the application of 
First & Merchants Corporation to acquire the successor by merger to the 
Mountain Trust Bank. I do not join, however, in the remarks of the 
majority opinion seeking to distinguish the controlling factors in this 
application from those factors governing an earlier similar application 
Elating to the Roanoke market, which the Board denied. I am speaking 
the 3(a)(1) application of Virginia National Bankshares to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of Virginia National Bank, 
Norfolk, and the Colonial-America National Bank of Roanoke (1972 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 494), cited by the majority. 
I dissented from the majority in that case because I found no 
evidence that more than minimal existing competition would have been 
foreclosed by allowing the transaction and because I found de novo entry 
unlikely and because I believed that deconcentration would be assisted by 
an immediate, more effective competitor. 
I reaffirm those beliefs today. 
In my opinion, the Roanoke public was denied the benefits of a more 
effective competitor, namely Virginia National Bankshares, in the intervening 
year. 
It may be noted that the largest bank in the market, First 
National Exchange Bank, has in the last year increased from 43 to 47 the 
Percentage of commercial bank deposits it controls in the Roanoke market. 
1 feel now, as I did over a year ago, that the best way to reduce the 

2829 
r — 
-2-
concentration in the Roanoke area is to bring in strong, competitive 
winded organizations. This procompetitive aspect, now recognized by the 
Board, was at least equally applicable in the earlier Virginia National 
Bank case. 
Ju*y 26, 1973 

2830 
B C J A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 
7/24/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 26, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Mountain Bank 
Vinton, Virginia 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of Mountain Bank, Vinton, Virginia, for stock in the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2 . 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that Mountain Bank will not conduct a banking business with the public 
Prior to its merger with Mountain Trust Bank, Roanoke, Virginia. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
I s made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
c°pies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 

283J. 
Mountain Bank 
- 
2 
-
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a 
member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained 
in this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
board of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization 
to commence business. A certified copy of such resolution should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
n e Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Enclosure 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 6 
7/24/73 
?0r immediate release 
J u ly 24> 
1 9 7 3 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today invited 
Coi*nent on a proposed amendment to its Regulation Q that would apply the penalty 
Pr°visions for early withdrawal of time deposits to changes in deposit contracts. 
The proposal would apply the new early withdrawal rule to any change 
ln a time deposit contract that results in an increase in interest rates or a 
Cllari8e in maturity. At the present time, the early withdrawal rule does not 
apply to such conversions of time deposits. In effect, the proposed rule would 
at conversions as withdrawals of funds. 
Comment on the proposal should be received by the Board by August 13. 
At the same time, the Board adopted an amendment to Regulation Q 
S p e l H n g o u t .. a s earlier announced by the Board on July 12. — how the early 
Vithdrawal provisions apply to existing time deposit contracts. 
The new early withdrawal rule (that went into effect July 5) states 
that a time deposit may be withdrawn before maturity only at a reduced rate 
of . 
. 
M e r e s t -- namely, the regular passbook rate for the period held, minus 
M 
tGG months. This rule applies, under the amendment adopted today, to the 
foil °wing types of contracts: 
1. Time deposits entered into after July 5. 
2. Contracts amended after July 5 to increase the rate of interest 
t 0 extend the maturity of the deposit. 
3. Contracts renewed after July 5, whether by automatic renewal or 
All other time deposit contracts are subject to the old rule which 
Ha*. 
e s that a bank may pay a time deposit before maturity only in an emergency 

2833 
vhere it is necessary to prevent great hardship to the depositor. In such cases, 
e depositor forfeits accrued and unpaid interest for a period of up to 3 
*°nths. 
A copy of the Board's orders relating to these matters is attached. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 217] 
INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Penalty for early withdrawals 
The Board of Governors proposes to treat, as a payment of 
a time deposit before maturity, any amendment to the time deposit 
C°nt:ract that results in either an increase in interest rate or a 
ch*' 
rtl!8e in the maturity of the deposit. Such treatment would mean 
the penalty for early withdrawals provided in Regulation Q 
Vou "I fi 
apply at the time of any such amendment to the contract. 
To aid in the consideration of the matter by the Board, 
persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
rSunients. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
Notary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washing-
ton r» 
' u> C. 20551, to be received not later than August 13, 1973. 
Material will be made available for inspection and copying 
uPon 
request, except as provided in § 2G1.6(a) of the Board's Rules 
Warding Availability of Information. 
To implement its proposal, the Board proposes to amend 
§ 2l7 
'•4(d) of its Regulation Q (12 CFR Part 217) by adding a new 
nee at the end thereof to read as follows: 
§ 217 i D 
* 
Payment of time deposits before maturity. 
* 
-k 
* 
P. 

. 2835 
-2-
(d) Penalty for early withdrawals. 
* 
* 
* 
A ny amendment of a time deposit contract that results in an increase 
i n the rate of interest paid or in a change in the maturity of the 
deposit constitutes a payment of the tine deposit before maturity. 
* 
rt 
-k 
* 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 24, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
SmJ 

2836 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER I I — FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Applicability of penalty for early withdrawals 
The Board of Governors, pursuant to its authority under 
« 
of the Federal Reserve Act to prescribe rules governing the 
Payment of interest on deposits, has amended its Regulation Q (12 
^'R Part 217) in order to clarify how the penalty for early withdrawals, 
adoPted by the Board on July 5, 1973, applies to various types of time 
dePosit contracts. 
There was no notice or public participation with respect 
to this amendment since such procedure would result in delay that 
- uld be contrary to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
S e e § 262.2(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR § 262.2(e)). 
j|L. 
e effective date was not deferred for the 30-day period referred 
t o ^ § 553(d) of Title 5, United States Code, because this amendment 
r°Coenizes a n exemption. 5 U.S.C. § 553(d)(1). 
Effective immediately, the first sentence of 5 217.4(d) of 
th 
0 board's Regulation Q (12 CFR Part 217) is amended by adding a new 
°°tnote 6a at the end thereof to read as follows: 
6a. The provisions of this paragraph apply to all time 
p°sit contracts entered into after July 5, 1973 and to all existing 

-2- 
. 2837 
time deposit contracts that are extended or renewed (whether by 
automatic renewal or otherwise) after such date, and to all time 
deposit contracts that are amended after such date so as to increase 
rate of interest paid. All contracts not subject to the provisions 
of this paragraph shall be subject to the restrictions of § 217.4(d) in 
effect prior to July 5, 1973, which permitted payment of a time deposit 
^efore maturity only in an emergency where necessary to prevent great 
hardship to the depositor, and which required the forfeiture of accrued 
aricl unpaid interest for a period of not less than 3 months on the 
amount withdrawn if an amount equal to the amount withdrawn had been 
°n deposit for 3 months or longer, and the forfeiture of all accrued 
and unpaid interest on the amount withdrawn if an amount equal to the 
amount withdrawn had been on deposit less than 3 months. 
* 
* 
* 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 24, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
/seal? 

2838 
Item No. 7 
7/24/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REDWOOD BAIICORP. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Montgomery Street 
Mortgage Corporation and West Coast Security In-
surance Agency, Inc. 
Redwood Bancorp, San Rafael, California, a bank holding 
° m p a n y within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
°r the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
of 
e Board's Regulation Y, to acquire indirectly, through its wholly 
0Vrj& j 
subsidiary, Redwood National Mortgage Company, the assets of 
somery Street Mortgage Corporation ("MSMC") and to acquire directly 
v°ting shares of West Coast Security Insurance Agency, Inc. 
Iest Coast''). Both MSMC and West Coast are headquartered in San Francisco, 
Caiif r^ia, where they operate as subsidiaries of TUP, Inc., San Francisco, 
Calif0r . 
nia. Notice of the application affording opportunity for interested 
submit comments and views has expired and all received have 
a c°nsidered. 
The operation by a bank holding company of a mortgage company 
*nd the sale of certain insurance coverage are activities that the Board 
Previously determined to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4 
)(1> 
and (9)). A bank holding company may acquire companies engaged 
thesG 
activities in accordance with the procedures the Board has es-
pursuant to § 4(c)(0) of the Act. 
Applicant is a recently formed bank holding company whose 

„ 2 8 3 9 
-3-
Principal subsidiary, Redwood Bank (deposits of $54.9 m i l l i o n ) i s the 
48th largest bank in California and the 5th largest of 10 banks in 
Marin County, where it holds 7.6 per cent of area deposits. Applicant 
also controls Redwood National Mortgage Company, formed de novo by 
applicant, and has received the Board's approval to acquire National 
Iortgage Company^ National Mortgage Company engages in a mortgage 
banl-ing business in Utah, Arizona, and Idaho. 
Redwood Bank originates construction loans and originates 
n d services mortgage loans for its own account and for the account of 
**ers. During 1972, Redwood Bank originated a total volume approximating 
iion in mortgage loans within the Greater San Francisco Bay Area.~ 
w°od Bank services for others a mortgage portfolio of approximately 
$66 nUlion. 
MSMC is a mortgage banking firm engaged in the origination and 
^eirvi -f 
of mortgage loans for institutional investors. It has a 
^ge servicing portfolio of approximately $34 million.-
T T q u - — 
p°sit data as of June, 1972. 
G e Board Order dated January 13, 1973. 
p7 The Gr 
J;°sta If f e r S a n Francisco Bay Area is comprised of Alameda, Contra 
°°noma P
a r i n> iIaPa» S a n Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, and 
a bounties. 
V Dat a as of December 31, 1972. 

2840 
-3-
Although headquartered in San Francisco, MSMC has not originated a 
Mortgage loan in this area for approximately two years. Of the $3.0 
m iUion in mortgage loans originated by MSMC in 1972, $2.7 million 
i n originations were derived from its Reno, Nevada office, and $0.3 
Million 
came from the Sacramento County area. In the Reno, Nevada 
Market, MSMC ranks as the twentieth largest mortgage lender with a 
Market share of 1.2 per cent. Redwood Bank neither originates nor 
Setvices mortgage or construction loans in the Reno area; it originated 
million in such loans in Sacramento County in 1972. Based on the 
f a c t s o f record, it appears that neither Applicant nor Company have a 
8iSnificant market share in either mortgage originations or mortgage 
Servicing in any relevant area. Thus, consummation of the proposed 
aC(luisition would have no adverse effect on existing competition. Appli-
C a n t' a limited capital resources inhibit its potential as a competitor 
to M 
S M C in the Reno mortgage markets, while the resources of MSMC limit 
i t s ability to expand in the San Francisco area. The Board therefore 
°ncludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would have no 
^Vetse effects on mortgage lending in any of the local markets. 
It is anticipated that MSMC's affiliation with Applicant will 
("ft i 
MSMC to compete more effectively with the larger mortgage bank-
g firms in the Reno area. Moreover, the use of MSMC's computer 
cilities and the expertise of its personnel in computerized maintenance 
mortGage 
accounts should enable each institution to effect economies 
cient to operate their combined mortgage banking activities at a 
pr°fit 
t in addition, the computer programs developed by MSMC would 

2811 
-4-
aUow Applicant to provide more efficient service to its own customers. 
°n balance, the Board concludes that the public benefit factors the 
^oard is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) outweigh any 
p0ssible adverse effects that might result from the proposed acquisition. 
In addition to its mortgage loan and servicing activity, 
tlSMC br»1 A 
fields a parcel of unimproved real estate for future development. 
eal estate investment or development are not activities that the Board 
3 3 dete*mined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper 
ncident thereto. The Board has received a committment from Applicant 
^hat •? t-will dispose of this parcel of real estate promptly upon approval 
of thi<? 
proposal, but in any event, no later than two years from the 
d a t e of this Order. 
West Coast engages in the sale of life, disability and hazard 
France related to the mortgages originated or serviced by MSMC. The 
U f e and disability policies insure the life and health of the mortgagor. 
1 
^aridi! 
** all such cases, total benefits payable are limited to the then out-
n8 principal balance of the loans. 
The hazard insurance policies 
et*9ure tu 
Lne real estate securing the mortgage loans. The mortgagees are 
Snated beneficiaries of such policies. West Coast also, from time to 
Sells such insurance to mortgage borrowers of Redwood Bank. These 
___ appear to be closely related to banking or managing or controlling 
Cities 
b*nk3. II 
however, West Coast also engages in the renewal of insurance policies 
sold by it on mortgages originated by MSMC, although the 
S*tvicin 
rights on such mortgages have now been transferred to others. 

2 8 4 2 
-3-
The renewal of such insurance policies is not considered to be directly 
related to an extension of credit or to the provision of other financial 
services. However, such renewals are made as a matter of convenience 
t 0 the mortgagors and, in the case of West Coast, the premium income 
derived from such sales apparently would not constitute a significant 
Portion of the aggregate insurance premium income of Applicant derived 
frora insurance sold pursuant to section 225.4(a)(9)(ii) of Regulation 
T-t therefore appears that the making of such renewals is permissible 
under section 225.4(a)(9)(ii)(c). 
Due to the limited nature of West Coast's insurance 
activities, it does not appear that its acquisition by Applicant would 
have any significant effect on either existing or potential competition. 
Hat" 
ner, consummation of Applicant's proposed acquisition of West Coast 
W° U l d ± n s ure continuity of its services to West Coast and its mortgagors. 
Based on the record herein, the application is approved on 
tlie 
e condition that I1SMC promptly dispose of its real estate holding, and 
n any event, no later than two years from the date of this Order. 
— 
. 
"t0 $ g L e r ° 8 S c o m m i s 9 i ° n income on such policies in 1972 amounted 
th-U 
o r l e s s t h a n 5 P e r c e n t o f s u c h commission income during 
us period. 

2813 
-6-
transaction shall not be cons animated later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board. This approval is subject further to the Board's 
authority to require reports by, and make examinations of, holding 
companies and their subsidiaries and to require such modification or 
termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
Subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
th 
e Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
°rders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
6/ 
By order of the Board of Governors Effective July 24, 1973. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
S h^hln t i n g f° r t h l S a c t i o n ; Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer and Holland. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No, 
7/24/73 
* 1 D R t S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 24, 1973 
Redwood Bancorp 
1447 Fourth Street 
San Rafael, California 
94902 
Gentlemen: 
The Board approved today your application to acquire 
certain assets of T.U.P., Inc., San Francisco, California. 
In considering this application, the Board reviewed the 
financial and managerial resources of Redwood Bancorp and its sub-
sidiaries, and has concluded that the capital position of Redwood 
Bank should be strengthened. The Board has also considered the 
material contained in Mr. Leydecker's letter of May 21, 1973, to 
Mr, Karlsson of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and does 
not believe that the proposals set forth in that letter adequately 
respond to the needs of Redwood Bank. 
\ 
In view of the rapid growth of Redwood Bank and its signi-
ficant equity needs to support that growth, the effectiveness of 
management in implementing an acceptable capital program will be of 
critical importance in the consideration of any proposed additional 
acquisitions„ 
Very truly yours, 
Chester B„ Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures: 1. Press Release 
2. 
Order 
