MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
AUGUST 29, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of 
System on Wednesday, August 29, 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
Governors of the Federal Reserve 
19 73. The Board met in the Board 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0
1
Connell, General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. Pursuant to the recommendation of the Legal 
D
ivision in a memorandum dated August 22, 19 73, the Board unanimously 
•Allied, a request for a hearing on the question whether acquisition by 
Manchester Financial Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri, of The National 
B
ank of Affton, Affton, Missouri, constituted branch banking and was 
i n
 violation of Missouri law. A copy of the letter denying the request 
l s
 attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its approval, 
°n August 16, 1973, of the applications of First National Boston Corpo-
ration, Boston, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of First Bank and Trust 

3 2 1 ) 8 
8/29/73 
_2_ 
Company of Wellesley, Wellesley, and Burlington Bank and Trust Company, 
Burlington, both located in Massachusetts. A copy of the order is 
attached under Item No. 2, along with the dissenting statement of 
Governor Brimmer. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First Alabama Bancshares. In a memorandum of July 10, 197 3, 
the Divisions of Research and Statistics and Supervision and Regulation 
recommended approval of the application of First Alabama Bancshares, 
Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
to Citizens Bank of Guntersville, Guntersville, Alabama. The recommen-
dation to approve the application had taken into consideration the fact 
that an agreement between the applicant and the bank included a convenant 
Providing that the bank's directors would not directly or indirectly 
e
nter the banking business in Guntersville for a period of five years. 
A
 memorandum from the Legal Division dated July 19, 1973, referred to 
S i
m i l a r covenants in other applications that had been before the Board 
a
nd to the fact that the covenant in the First Alabama Bancshares appli-
cation did not appear to have significant anticompetitive effects. 
In response to the comment of one member of the Board that there 
W a S n o
 reference to the covenant not to compete in the memorandum from 
e
 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Mr. Leavitt assured the Board 
members that they would be informed of all such covenants in future 
a
Pplications b efore the Board. 

3 2 3 3 
8/29/73 
_2_ 
Governor Bucher expressed the view that the Board should not 
adopt a uniform rule on covenants not to compete. In his judgment, the 
important consideration is whether the terms of a particular covenant 
not to compete are reasonable and he suggested that such covenants be 
examined on an individual basis along with the other competitive and 
public interest considerations in the application. Further discussion 
developed a majority view consonant with Governor Bucher's position. 
With Governors Mitchell and Brimmer dissenting, the Board approved 
the application on the grounds that the covenant was not unreasonable 
in light of all the other relevant considerations. Governors Mitchell 
and Brimmer opposed in principle the inclusion of covenants restricting 
future competition in bank merger and acquisition agreements. The Board 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting its decision. A copy is 
attached under Item No. 3, along with the dissenting statement of 
Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
Connecticut Bancshares. In a memorandum dated August 23, 197 3, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of a 
request by Connecticut Bancshares Corporation, Windsor Locks, Connecticut, 
that the Board find that a modified proposed exchange offer to the 
minority shareholders of Northern Connecticut National Bank, also in 
Windsor Locks, would be fair and equivalent to the offer extended to the 
majority shareholders. Other relevant documentation included memoranda 
dated June 19, 19 73, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation and 
August 24, 1973, from the Legal Division. 

33(0 
8/29/73 
_2_ 
When the Board authorized Connecticut Bancshares to become a 
bank holding company by order dated December 30, 1971, through acquisi-
tion of 50,9 per cent of the shares of Northern Connecticut National 
Bank, it conditioned its approval on the applicant making a fair and 
equivalent exchange offer to all shareholders within ninety days. At 
that time, the Board understood that Connecticut Bancshares planned to 
offer to acquire each of the remaining shares of the bank's stock for 
an equivalent amount of cash or common stock, or a combination of cash 
and stock; and at the request of Connecticut Bancshares, the Board 
subsequently extended the time to comply with the order until early 1973. 
Connecticut Bancshares was now requesting that it be permitted to modify 
its original exchange offer to exclude the cash option. 
During discussion of this request, it was noted that a recent 
decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit, 
in Western Bancshares v. Board of Governor^, had cast doubt on the 
statutory authority of the Board to require an equal offer to all share-
holders in acting on bank holding company applications. In view of this 
development, the Legal Division had recommended that the Board approve 
the request on the basis that the modified proposed exchange offer would 
be consistent with the Board's approval order, but that in notifying 
the applicant of its decision, the Board not reiterate the equal offer 
requirement. 
After discussion, the Board approved the request of Connecticut 
bancshares in the manner recommended by the staff, Governors Brimmer and 

330J 
8/29/73 
_2_ 
Sheehan dissenting on the grounds that the modified offer would not 
be equivalent to that made to the majority shareholders and that the 
equal offer requirement should not be dropped while the Department of 
Justice is considering the Board's petition for a writ of certiorari in 
the Western Bancshares decision. A copy of the letter sent to counsel 
for Connecticut Bancshares is attached as Item No. 4. 
D. II. Baldwin Company. On July 26 and 27, 1973, the Board 
discussed an application by D. II. Baldwin Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
to acquire shares of Nordenco Inc., and indirectly of North Denver Bank, 
both in Denver, Colorado, and agreed to defer action on the application 
pending receipt of information from Baldwin regarding its divestiture 
Plans for Empire Savings and Loan Association, also of Denver. 
At today's meeting, the Board considered a memorandum from 
Mr. Leavitt dated August 20, 1973, recommending that the Board act on 
pending applications of Baldwin without regard to Baldwin's divestiture 
Plans for Empire Savings and Loan. Mr. Leavitt pointed out that the 
divestiture date specified in the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding 
Company Act for the class of nonbanking activities that includes Empire 
Savings and Loan Association is December 31, 1980. Mr. Leavitt also 
noted that Baldwin was aware that it had to divest Empire Savings and 
Loan by that time and he believed that Baldwin would not wait until the 
last minute to do so but would divest at the first favorable opportunity. 
Leavitt pointed out, however, that Baldwin's control of Empire, a 

3302 
8/29/73 
_2_ 
major savings and loan association in the Denver market area, and of 
a major bank in the same market should be regarded as a competitive 
factor to be considered in the instant proposal, since North Denver 
Bank also operated in the Denver market. 
After discussion, the Board approved the application, with 
no condition regarding divestiture of Empire Savings and Loan, 
Governor Brimmer dissenting. 
In a related action, as recommended in a memorandum from 
the Divisions of Research and Statistics and Supervision and Regulation 
dated August 1, 1973, the Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, 
the applications of D. H. Baldwin Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of the successors by merger to the following banks in Colorado: 
First National Bank in Grand Junction, Grand Junction; First National 
Bank-North in Grand Junction, Grand Junction; First National Bank in 
Aspen, Aspen; and First National Bank of Glenwood Springs, Glenwood 
Springs; and as an incident thereto to merge with First Western Slope 
Corporation, Grand Junction, and First McKinley Corporation, Glenwood 
Springs. 
In dissenting on the D. H. Baldwin Company applications approved 
t Q
day, Governor Brimmer expressed his concern about the presence of 
manufacturing and of savings and loan activities in a bank holding 
company that is expanding rapidly in banking. He viewed the North 
Denver Bank acquisition, moreover, as having serious anticompetitive 
e
ffects. 

33VZ 
8/29/73 
_2_ 
major savings and loan association in the Denver market area, and of 
a major bank in the same market should be regarded as a competitive 
factor to be considered in the instant proposal, since North Denver 
Bank also operated in the Denver market. 
After discussion, the Board approved the application, with 
no condition regarding divestiture of Empire Savings and Loan, 
Governor Brimmer dissenting. 
In a related action, as recommended in a memorandum from 
the Divisions of Research and Statistics and Supervision and Regulation 
dated August 1, 1973, the Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, 
the applications of D. H. Baldwin Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of the successors by merger to the following banks in Colorado: 
First National Bank in Grand Junction, Grand Junction; First National 
Bank-North in Grand Junction, Grand Junction; First National Bank in 
Aspen, Aspen; and First National Bank of Glenwood Springs, Glenwood 
Springs; and as an incident thereto to merge with First Western Slope 
Corporation, Grand Junction, and First McKinley Corporation, Glenwood 
Springs. 
In dissenting on the D. H. Baldwin Company applications approved 
today, Governor Brimmer expressed his concern about the presence of 
manufacturing and of savings and loan activities in a bank holding 
company that is expanding rapidly in banking. He viewed the North 
Denver Bank acquisition, moreover, as having serious anticompetitive 
effects. 

3 3 ( ; 3 
8/29/73 
_2_ 
It was understood that implementing documents would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration with respect to the aforementioned Baldwin 
applications and that a dissenting statement also would be prepared for 
Governor Brimmer. 
Republic National Bank of Dallas; Republic of Texas Corporation. 
On July 12, 1973, the Board discussed the applicability of grandfather 
privileges of Republic National Bank of Dallas, Dallas, Texas, for the 
nonbanking activities of the Howard Corporation, a trusteeship established 
for the benefit of Republic's shareholders, which owns stock in a number 
of subsidiaries engaged in oil, gas, and mineral activities and in real 
estate activities; and which owns less than twenty-five per cent of the 
stock of each of a number of banks in the Dallas area. 
After the July 12 meeting Mr. Leavitt, at the Board's instruction, 
informed Republic National Bank officials that the Board was disinclined 
to complete processing of its grandfather review of the Howard Corpo-
ration until an indication was received about Republic's plans with 
respect to the minority-owned banks. In a letter dated July 20, 1973, 
Republic National Bank revealed that, if Board approval were received 
for the formation of a proposed new holding company, applications would 
be submitted to acquire 16 banks in the Dallas area in which the Howard 
Corporation had an ownership interest. 
Background material for today's meeting included memoranda from 
Mr. Leavitt dated July 6, July 26, and August 21, 1973, and from the 

. 8 3 0 4 
8/29/73 
_2_ 
Divisions of Supervision and Regulation and Research and Statistics 
dated June 27, 1973. 
After discussion, Board members were in agreement that Republic 
National Bank would be entitled to grandfather rights for the eligible 
nonbanking activities of the Howard Corporation. However, in connection 
with the pending application of Republic of Texas Corporation to become 
a bank holding company by acquiring the shares of Republic National Bank 
of Dallas, the Board noted that the terms of the Howard trust called for 
distribution of its shares in 1978 to shareholders of Republic National 
Bank. Since Republic of Texas Corporation would be the sole stockholder 
of Republic National Bank in 1978, if its application to become a bank 
holding company were approved, the Board was faced with the question 
whether Republic of Texas would become a successor to Republic National 
Bank with respect to the latter's aforementioned grandfather privileges. 
The Board was of the view that Republic of Texas Corporation should not 
succeed to the grandfather privileges of Republic National Bank of Dallas 
and agreed to defer action on the grandfather determination until the 
next Board meeting, at which time it was understood that the Republic of 
Texas application also would be considered. The staff was instructed to 
prepare for the next Board meeting a memorandum outlining possible Board 
actions that would implement its tentative decisions regarding grandfather 
Privileges, the successor question concerning Republic of Texas Corporation, 
and the structure of the Dallas banking market. 

8/29/73 
-9-
All members of the staff other than Messrs. Allison and 
O'Connell then withdrew, 
After brief discussion, it was understood that a Board meeting 
would be scheduled next week to consider various monetary policy matters. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Assistant Secretary 

3306 
Item No. 1 
8/29/73 
A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
H E 
B O A R D 
September 6, 1973 
Anthony J. Dill, Esq. 
8507 Gravois Road 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63123 
Dear M r . Dill: 
I am writing with reference to the request of your clients, 
Gravois Bank, the Letnay Bank & Trust Company and the Crestwood Bank, 
that in connection with the remand to the Board by the 8th Circuit 
Court of Appeals of the application by Manchester Financial Corporation 
to acquire The National Bank of Affton, the Board provide a suitable 
hearing for the presentation of facts regarding the question whether 
The National Bank of Affton would be operated as a branch of 
Manchester Bank in violation of Missouri law. 
Under section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act the Board 
is required to hold a hearing only when the State or Federal super-
visory authority, as the case may be, has recommended denial of 
the application. 
In other circumstances 'the Board orders a hearing 
only where it appears that the necessary information cannot be 
adequately developed by other means. 
In the present case, since no 
stay was requested, the bank involved has been in operation for over 
a year. 
The Board is sending an examiner to determine the mode of 
operation of the bank and make recommendations on the branching 
issue. 
In the course of the examination competing banks will be 
contacted and offered an opportunity to submit views and factual 
material on this question. Additionally, the Board is affording you 
an opportunity to submit any factual material and legal arguments you 
may have on the branch question. 
Such submission should be made 
, within three weeks from the date of this letter. 
The Board believes that these procedures will be adequate 
to assure a proper record on which to base its decision and has accord-
ingly denied the request for a hearing. 
Very truly yours, 
/s/ Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E . Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
'•f^LRtsf; 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C t 
T O 
1 

3307 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
8/29/73 
FIRST NATIONAL BOSTON CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
First National Boston Corporation, 3oston, Massachusetts, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of the following banks 
located in Massachusetts: 
(1) First Bank and Trust Company of 
Wellesley, Wellesley ("Wellesley Bank"); and (2) Burlington Bank and 
Trust Company, Burlington ("Burlington Bank"). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tions in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C, 
1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization and bank holding 
c
°mpany in Massachusetts, controls one bank with aggregate deposits of 
$2,7 billion, representing about 23 per cent of total deposits in com-
1/ 
^ercial banks in the State. 
Consummation of the two proposals would 
increase Applicant's 3hare of commercial bank deposits by .2 percentage 
2/ 
Points, and this would not result in a significant increase in the con-
centration of banking resources in the State. 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved through July 31, 1973. 
2/ By Order of this date, the Board approved Applicant's acquisition 
the successor by merger to the Holyoke National Bank, Holyoke, 
Massachusetts, which controls 0.2 percentage points of Statewide deposits. 

3308 
- i . 
Wellesley Bank (deposits of $8,6 million) and Burlington Bank 
(deposits of $12.8 million) are the 58th and 46th largest of 69 com-
mercial banks in the Boston banking market, which is approximated by 
the Boston SMSA, and control, respectively, 0.1 and 0.2 per cent of 
market deposits. Applicant's present subsidiary bank, the First National 
Bank of Boston ("First National"), is located in the Boston banking market, 
where it controls 32.7 per cent of deposits in commercial banks. First 
National is located 10 miles from Wellesley Bank and 13 miles from 
Burlington Bank, Although Wellesley Bank and Burlington Bank are located 
in the same market as First National, it does not appear that a signifi-
cant amount of existing competition would be eliminated upon consummation 
of these proposals. This conclusion is based, in part, upon the fact that 
first National's banking business is largely wholesale in nature while 
the business of Wellesley Bank and Burlington Bank, both single-office 
banks, is a retail business. First National derives 74 per cent of its 
total deposits and 64 per cent of its IPC demand deposits from accounts 
in excess of $100,000. First National derives less than 3.0 per cent, or 
^proximately $48 million, of its total demand and savings deposits from 
Wellesley Bank's primary service area. Similarly, First National derives 
1
.3 per cent, or about $24 million, of its total demand and savings 
deposits from Burlington Bank's primary service area. Neither Wellesley 
Bank nor Burlington Bank derives a significant amount of their loans or 
deposits from First National's primary service area. 

3309 
Although First National is located in the same market as 
Wellesley Bank and Burlington Bank, First National is restricted by 
State law from branching into the County in which each Bank is located. 
Several other independent banks are located in both Wellesley Bank's and 
Burlington Bank's service area and County, and it does not appear that 
Applicant's acquisition of either Bank would result in barriers to entry 
into those areas by other banking organizations. Further, it does not 
appear that Applicant's entry into either Bank's market by an alternative 
acquisition of a small independent bank would present significantly dif-
ferent competitive considerations. Although Applicant has the financial 
and managerial resources to enter either Wellesley Bank's or Burlington 
Bank's service area de novo, the Board views the proposed acquisitions as 
"foothold" entries that are tantamount to de novo entry in view of the 
small size of each Bank, both absolutely and relatively. In addition, 
since Wellesley Bank is the smallest bank in a service area where three 
banks that are holding company subsidiaries control in excess of 56 per 
cent of deposits, Applicant's acquisition of Wellesley Bank would likely 
increase that Bank's competitive effectiveness. Similarly, Burlington 
Bank controls less than 7 per cent of deposits in an area where two banks 
that are holding company subsidiaries control more than 60 per cent of 
area deposits. Accordingly, Applicant's acquisition of Burlington Bank 
would likely increase that Bank's ability to compete with the larger banks 
located in its area, particularly in view of considerations relating to its 
financial and managerial resources, discussed hereinafter. On balance, 
therefore, the Board finds that no significant potential competition would 
he eliminated upon consummation of these proposals. 

3310 
-4-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant and First National are satisfactory and consistent with 
approval of the application. Wellesley Bank has experienced a sig-
nificant growth in deposits in the past four years, yet its capital has 
declined. Accordingly, Applicant's assurance to provide Wellesley Bank 
with additional capital will enhance that Bank's financial resources and 
future prospects, and this consideration lends some weight toward ap-
proval. The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Burlington Bank are considered to be poor. Bank has experienced 
substantial loan losses since 1970, its capital-to-assets ratio has 
declined and it is presently in need of capital. Further, in view of 
Bank's difficulties, management is in need of strengthening. Applicant 
Proposes to increase Burlington Bank's capital by a minimum of $300,000 
?! 
" 
within six months of consummation and to provide managerial strength 
to Burlington Bank. The future prospects of Burlington Bank with Ap-
1 
Plicant's assistance appear to be favorable, and these considerations 
Provide strong weight toward approval of the application. 
There is no evidence that any major banking needs of the areas 
| 
served by Wellesley Bank or Burlington Bank are currently going unserved. 
However, Applicant proposes to offer, through Wellesley Bank, investment 
management services for the small investor and revolving 48-month car 
loans which are new services not currently provided in the area. Con-
venience and needs factors with respect to Wellesley Bank are consistent 
^ith and lend some weight toward approval. Applicant proposes to increase 
^ 

_ 3311 
and improve the services currently offered by BUrlington Bank in pro-
viding overdraft checking, revolving 4G-month car loans^ credit card 
and trust services. Updating Burlington Bank
f
s services should make 
it more competitive and more responsive to the needs of its customers. 
These considerations provide weight toward approval of the acquisition 
of Burlington Bank, It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
actions are in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated 
Ca) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective September 4, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
TSEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Sheehan, Bucher, 
a
nd Holland. Voting against this action: Governor Brimmer. Absent and 
n
°t voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane, 

3 3 X 2 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I would deny both applications. The Board has today approved 
the acquisition by the dominant banking organization in the Bostom market 
and the State of two additional banks located in the same banking market. 
In so doing, the Board has chosen to ignore the adverse effects such 
acquisitions will have on both existing and potential competition and 
the resulting increase in deposit concentration in an already highly 
concentrated market. 
The majority states that First National does not compete with 
cither Weliesley Bank or Burlington Bank due to the wholesale nature of 
^ e former versus the retail nature of the latter. However, it is clear 
f
rom the record that (with respect to several categories of deposits under 
$20,000) First National derives three to four times the volume of deposits 
from Weliesley Bank's primary service area as does Wellesley Bank. Further, 
F
irst National had approximately $3.8 million in consumer installment loans 
u
hder $20,000 from Wellesley Bank's primary service area whereas Wellesley 
B a
nk had only $0.9 million in loans of that category from the same area. 
Burlington Bank's primary service area, First National derived $3.1 
m i
U i o n in deposits from business and individual demand deposit accounts 
under $20,000, whereas Burlington Bank had $2.0 million from the same 
category of accounts in the same area. These data amply demonstrate 
t h
at Applicant's acquisition of either Wellesley Bank or Burlington Bank 
v
°nld eliminate a significant amount of existing competition. 

-2-
It is clear that Applicant seeks to expand its retail banking 
activity in both Norfolk and Middlesex Counties. Until recently, Applicant 
consciously chose to emphasize large loans to major corporations. Now it 
wants to compete more for consumer and small business loans. So the only 
real question concerns the way in which it can enter these markets. 
Applicant is undoubtedly preeminently capable of expanding by entering 
such areas d_e novo. To permit the largest banking organization in the 
State of Massachusetts to expand by acquisition of either Wellesley Bank 
°r Burlington Bank not only eliminates Applicant as a potential de novo 
entrant into these areas, but it also eliminates these two banks as 
Possible vehicles for deconcentrating the already highly concentrated 
Boston market. Further, if the largest banking organization in the 
market and the State is not required to expand de novo, it seems unlikely 
any other banking organization will be so limited. Accordingly, I believe 
that significant future competition will be eliminated by the Board's 
a
Pproval. 
The Bank Holding Company Act requires the Board to deny any 
acquisition 
"whose effect in any section of the country may be sub-
stantially to lessen competition...unless it finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighted in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction in meeting the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served." 
(Emphasis added.) 

3314 
-3-
I find that the asserted benefits to the public to be derived from con-
summation of the proposal are mainly fictional, and they do not outweigh 
the anticompetitive effects of the acquisition of Wellesley Bank. Conse-
quently, I interpret the Act as requiring disapproval of such acquisition. 
The majority stresses Burlington Bank's need for financial and managerial 
support, but it does not consider whether such support can be obtained in 
a les s anticompetitive manner such as reliance on the powers of the 
responsible bank supervisory authorities. As I stated in an earlier case 
1/ 
involving a proposal to acquire a Massachusetts bank, 
before the Board 
can approve such an anticompetitive acquisition, it must be demonstrated 
that the benefit to the public cannot be accomplished by a less anti-
2/ 
competitive alternative. 
In my view, no such showing has been made in 
this case. 
The Board is required by the Bank Holding Company Act to 
consider in each application to acquire a bank "the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of...the banks concerned...." 
However, the Act was intended as a "safeguard against undue concentration 
y 
In the matter of the application of State Street Boston Financial 
Corporation, 1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin 528 (Dissenting Opinion). 
2./ See U.S. v. Philadelphia National Bank. 399 U.S. 350 (1970). 

_ 3315 
-4-
3/ 
of control of banking activities" 
not as a substitute for the bank 
supervisory process. The bank supervisory process is the appropriate 
method for resolving Burlington Bank's financial and managerial diffi-
culties. Use of the supervisory process instead of the Bank Holding 
Company Act could eliminate the need for these anticompetitive acquisi-
tions and thereby result in greater net benefits to the public. 
In conclusion, the acquisition of either Wellesley Bank or 
Burlington Bank would have significant anticompetitive effects that are 
ftot outweighed by public interest considerations. Therefore, I would 
deny both applications. 
September 4, 1973 
3/ S. Rep. No. 91-1084, 91st Cong., 1st Sess. 2 (1970). 

331G 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/29/73 
FIRST ALABAMA BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
<12 U.S.C. 1642(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of the successor by merger to Citizens Bank of Guntersville, 
Guntersville, Alabama. The bank into which Bank is to be merged has 
no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of 
the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
of shares of the successor organization is treated herein as the 
Proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the 
application in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in Alabama, 
controls six banks with aggregate deposits of $702.3 million, which 
represent 10.3 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the 
S t a t e . C o n s u m m a t i o n of the proposed transaction would add .20 percentage 
1/ Unless otherwise indicated, banking data are as of December 31, 1972, 
adjusted to reflect holding company acquisitions and formations approved 
through July 19, 1973. 

3317 
-2-
points to Applicant's share of total commercial bank deposits in Alabama 
and would not change Applicant's ranking among banking organizations in 
the State. 
Bank, the fifth largest of nine banks in the Marshall County 
banking market (approximated by Marshall County, Alabama), controls 11.3 
2/ 
per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in that market."" Applicant s 
nearest banking subsidiary is located at Huntsville, Alabama, approximately 
40 miles from Bank. No meaningful competition exists between Bank and 
any of Applicant's present subsidiaries; nor does it appear likely that 
such competition will develop in the future, in view of the distances 
involved, the number of intervening banks, and Alabama's restrictive 
branching laws. In addition, Marshall County's relatively low population 
Per bank office ratio indicates that de novo entry into the Marshall 
County banking market is not a likely prospect. 
In its consideration of Applicant's proposal the Board has 
considered the question of whether a covenant not to compete contained 
in a proposed Plan of Reorganization between Applicant and the present 
directors of Bank is contrary to the standards respecting competition 
and the public interest which the Board is required to consider under 
the Bank Holding Company Act. Having reviewed subject covenant and 
all facts of record, the Board finds that the covenant is consistent 
w
ith such standards; and its presence in the record does not require 
denial of the application. 
Data as of June 30, 1972. 

33x8 
-3-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are generally satisfactory. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, 
and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
°f this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,J/ effective September 21, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y Voting for this action: Governors Daane, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. 
Noting against this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governor Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

3319 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS MITCHELL AND BRIMMER 
We would disapprove the application by First Alabama Bancshares, 
Inc., to acquire Citizens Bank of Guntersville. A Plan of Reorganization 
incident to subject proposal contains a covenant not to compete which, by 
its terms, prohibits Bank's present directors from entering the banking 
business in Guntersville for a period of five years from the effective 
date of the proposed acquisition. In our view, such covenants necessarily 
inhibit competition and should not be sanctioned by the Board. 
The purpose and effect of the covenant in this case is to 
Preclude the possibility that the restricted individuals would provide 
support for an alternative source of commercial banking services 
in Guntersville in the near future. Such consequence is inherently 
anticompetitive. Our conclusion in this respect is premised upon the 
^imitations on entry into commercial banking imposed by laws and 
r e
gulations administered by Federal and State banking authorities. 
c
omni e r ci ai banking is a regulated industry in which statutory limitations 
°n entry are imposed to achieve certain public interest objectives. These 
limitations, which are implemented principally through State and Federal 
bartering requirements, themselves inhibit competition. They influence 
fundamentally the structure and operation of commercial banking markets 
and temper significantly the force of those arguments traditionally advanced 
ifl the courts to justify covenants in cases involving business relationships 
w
here there are no regulatory barriers to entry. A bank holding company 

3320 
-26-
offeror, whose bank purchase proposal contains such a covenant would 
have difficulty in any case in establishing to our satisfaction that 
the anticompetitive effects of such a covenant "are clearly outweighed 
in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in 
meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served." It 
is our view that the record in the instant case fails to support the 
Board's conclusion that the subject covenant "is consistent with such 
standards". We would deny the application. 
September 21, 1973 

^i-RES^ 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
B D A R D 
DF 
G O V E R N O R S 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
• F 
T H E 
A D D R E S S 
D r F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 4 
8/29/73 
August 31, 1973 
Mr. John F. Fritts 
Cadwalder, Uickershara & Taft 
One Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Dear Mr. Fritts: 
This refers to your letter of May 17, 1973, regarding a 
Proposal whereby Connecticut Eancshares Corporation, Windsor Locks, 
Connecticut ("Applicant"), would extend an exchange offer to the 
minority shareholders of Northern Connecticut National Bank, Windsor 
Locks, Connecticut ("Bank"). 
Your letter states that Applicant desires to modify the 
exchange offer previously approved by the Board, under which the 
minority shareholders of Bank were to be. offered $42.23 per share 
Plus interest at 0 per cent per year from February 16, 1972 to the 
d
ato. of exchange or, if higher, the then book value per share of 
fiank, payable in (a) cash or (b) shares of common stock of Applicant, 
Valued at the proposed public offering price per share of such stock, 
0 r
 (c) any combination of cash or such stock so valued, as each 
stockholder chooses. Under the plan set forth in your letter of 
M
ay 17, 1973, Applicant will offer to exchange for each share of Bank 
the number of shares of its stock, when valued at the proposed public 
offering price per share, that would equal $42.23 plus interest on 
such amount at 6 per cent per year from February 16, 1972 to the date 
exchange, or, if higher, the then book value per share of Bank's 
common stock. It is understood that proceeds from the public offerings 
Q
re to be used to either eliminate Applicant's acquisition debt or to 
substantially reduce such debt and increase the equity capital position 
Bank. 
The Board of Governors has found that the changes set forth 
in your May 17 letter are consistent with the Board's Order of 
^ecember 31, 1971. 
Very truly yours 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
