MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 6, 1973 

( w O u l 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, July 6, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the 
General Counsel 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
The staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial 
review. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
17 Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

r 
trttJi.Ifi-' 
<* 
—-
7/6/73 
-2-
Members of the staff who had been present only for the briefing 
then withdrew, 
(Consent calendar. Pursuant to a recommendation in a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated July 2, 1973, the Board unanimously approved 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York authorizing payment of 
compensation to outside counsel for services rendered during 1972 in 
connection with a suit filed against the New York Bank. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
July 3 
1973, the Board unanimously approved a letter to counsel for 
Patagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, reflecting its denial, on 
June 26, 19 73, of a request that the Board determine that Pima Savings 
and Loan Association was a subsidiary of Patagonia on June 30, 1968. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The 
Board unanimously approved the application of First Union, 
Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of the Bank of 
Kennett, Kennett, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Commercial 
Bank of Lexington, Lexington, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 

OCT')') 
/w« JHjO 
7/6/73 
_3_ 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Bancshares 
of Florida, Inc., Boca Raton, Florida, to acquire shares of First National 
Bank of Fort Pie rce, Fort Pierce, Florida, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First Pennsylvania Corporation. In a memorandum dated June 25, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of First Pennsylvania Corporation, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, to purchase shares of First Northamerica Investments, Ltd., 
Montreal, Canada. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia also recommended 
approval. 
After discussion during which questions were raised regarding 
the operations and management of First Pennsylvania Corporation, the 
ttoard unanimously approved the application. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant is attached as Item No. 6. 
Iron City Eagle Coal,Inc. In a memorandum of July 2, 1973, the 
Divisions of Supervision and Regulation and Research and Statistics 
recommended approval of the application of Iron City Eagle Coal, Inc., 
Lockwood, West Virginia, to become a bank holding company through acquisi-
tion of shares of The Gauley National Bank of Gauley Bridge, Gauley Bridge, 
West Virginia. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 

7/6/73 
_4_ 
Chase Manhattan Bank. In letters dated April 18, 1972, April 18, 
1973, and June 15, 1973, the Board had granted The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), New York, New York, extensions of time for 
divesting its shares of Standard and Chartered Banking Group Limited, 
London, England. Although the original divestiture order, in a letter 
to Chase dated January 23, 1970, was in the public information file, 
the three subsequent letters had not been made available to the public. 
It was learned that Chairman Patman of the House Banking and 
Currency Committee had requested copies of the modifications of the 
original divestiture order as had representatives of the news media. 
A story concerning the divestiture order had recently appeared in two 
major newspapers and in a financial newsletter. 
Against the background of two memoranda from the Legal Division 
dated July 5, 1973, which related Chase's objection to public availability 
the letters, the Board discussed the staff recommendation that the 
letters to Chase dated April 18, 1972, April 18, 1973, and June 15, 1973, 
be placed in the public information file. 
Consideration of the Chase request for nondisclosure of the 
letters relating to the Standard and Chartered divestiture order was 
broadened to include discussion generally of the Board's policy of 
disclosing information as required by the Public Information Act of 
July 4, 1967. Comment was made that it is the general policy of the 
Board to place orders of acquisition and divestiture, with deletion of 
financial information, in the public information file but that incoming 

7/6/73 
-5-
correspondence describing the reasons for an applicant's request is 
not made available. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the recommen-
dation that the letters dated April 18, 1972, April 18, 1973, and June 15, 
1973, be placed in the public information file and that incoming corre-
spondence on this matter, because of its confidential nature, not be 
disclosed. It was understood that prior to making these letters public, 
counsel for Chase would be informed of the Board's decision. It was 
also understood that copies of the letters would be sent to Chairman Patman. 
Regulation Q. Governor Mitchell reported on a meeting of the 
Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, held the preceding 
afternoon, at which recent actions on time deposit interest ceilings were 
discussed, and he reviewed developments since the Coordinating Committee 
meeting in connection with the Board's Regulation Q action of the preceding 
day, 
Governor Mitchell also reported on a request by Chairman Wille 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that the Board suspend 
interest rate ceilings on multiple-maturity time deposits of $100,000 or 
m o r e • 
It was understood that memoranda would be prepared in this 
connection by the Legal and Research Divisions in order that the Board 
might consider this matter at a subsequent meeting. 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation. On June 15, 
1 9 73, during discussion of the application of First National City Overseas 

53(> 
7/6/73 
-6-
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire indirectly 
through Prestamos Prestos Puerto Rico, Inc., small loan companies in 
Puerto Rico, Governor Brimmer was asked to contact the Secretary of 
the Treasury of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to see if Puerto Rican 
authorities had any objection to First National City's proposal. 
At today's meeting, Governor Brimmer reported on a telephone 
conversation he had with, and a subsequent letter he received from, 
the Puerto Rican Secretary of the Treasury. It was understood that 
Mr. Dahl would prepare a memorandum in this connection for the Board's 
consideration at an early future meeting. 
Those not concerned with discussion of the following matter 
then withdrew from the meeting. 
United States National Bank. The Board discussed recent 
developments concerning Federal Reserve credit assistance to United 
States National Bank, San Diego, California. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
(Note: Pursuant to the understanding at the meetings on 
H ay 16 and June 15, 1973, there were transmitted today to the Chairmen 
o f the appropriate Senate and House Committees letters and draft bills 
regarding the legislative recommendations contained in the Board's 
l9?2 Annual Report with respect to (1) lending authority of Federal 
Reserve Banks; (2) purchase of obligations of foreign governments by 
Federal Reserve Banks; (3) bank investments for community development; 

7/6/73 
_7_ 
and (4) loans to bank examiners. Copies of the letters sent to the 
Senate Committees, with accompanying draft bills, are attached as 
ItemsJB-U.) 

B O A R D Q F 
G O V E R N O R S 
2 5 3 8 
cot-
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
7/6/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL COSREFPUNOCNCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 10, 1973 
Edward G. Guy, Esq. 
Vice President and General Counsel 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Guy: 
This is in response to your letter of May 16, 1973, addressed 
to the Board's General Counsel, requesting authorization for the payment 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of compensation to the firm of 
Cahill, Gordon, Sonnett, Rcindel & Ohl in the amount of $24,260.85 for 
services render ed from January 2, 197 2 through December 3, 1972, as special 
counsel in connection with the firm's representation of the New York 
Reserve Bank in the case of I.andy, et al. v. FDIC, en al. You advise 
that, on the basis of previous authorizations from the Beard's General 
Counsel, given under delegated authority to pay up to $50,000 in legal_ 
fees in connection with this matter, you have expended the total sum of 
$48,383.43 for counsel fees (including payments to New Jersey counsel; 
an additional $1,438.08 for printing costs of the brief on appeal 
in this matter, leaving authorized an unexpended balance oi: $178.49. You 
indicate further that, based on the amount of work and the import and 
intricacy of the issues involved, your judgment is that the Cahill bill 
services rendered during 1972 is reasonable. 
On the basis of the information, analysis, and recommendation 
i n your letter, the Board has approved the payment by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York of compensation to Cahill, Gordon, Sonnet.c, Reindcl & 
0 h l in the amount: of $24,260.85, bringing the total amount of legal fees 
authorized in this matter to $74,082.36. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

Z53<3 
f ^ T E ^ V 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
7/6/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
* 
A D D R E S S 
a r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 6, 1973 
John J. Ross, Esq. 
Brown, Vlassis & Bain 
222 North Central Avenue 
Phoenix, Arizona 
85004 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
x 
This is in reference to the request by "Patagonia Corporation, 
Tucson, Arizona ("Patagonia") for a determination by the Board of 
Governors pursuant to §§ 2(a)(2)(C) and 2(d)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (the "Act") that Pima Savings and Loan Association, 
Tucson, Arizona ("Pima") was a subsidiary of Patagonia on June 30, 
1968 within the meaning of § 2(d)(3). 
Section 2(d)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(d)(3)), defines 
a subsidiary of a bank holding company as: 
"any company with respect to the management or policies 
of which such bank holding company has the power, 
directly or indirectly, to exercise a controlling 
influence, as determined by the Board, after notice 
and opportunity for hearing." 
Patagonia claims that it had the power on June 30, 1968, to exercise 
a controlling influence with respect to the management or policies of 
Pima; that as a result Pima was its subsidiary on that date; that at 
Patagonia's request, the Board is required to initiate and make a 
control determination; and that Patagonia possesses indefinite "grand-
father" privileges pursuant to section 4(a)(2) of the Act with reference 
to all shares of Pima currently held. Section 4(a)(2) provides, in 
Part, as follows: 
"That a company covered in 1970 may also engage in 
those activities in which directly or through a 
subsidiary (i) it was lawfully engaged on June 30, 
1968 , . ., and (ii) it has been continuously engaged 
since June 30, 1968 . . ." (Emphasis added.) 
\ 

5*0 
John J. Ross, Esq. 
a 
-2-
The Board has considered Patagonia's claim and all materials 
submitted in support thereof that Pima was its subsidiary on June 30, 
1968. The Board is of the view that a determination of subsidiary 
status under §§ 2(a)(2)(C) and 2(d)(3) is one to be initiated and made 
by ihe Board after notice and opportunity for hearing in enforcing its 
regulatory authority under the Act and not for the purpose of conferring 
grandfather benefits pursuant to a claim by a bank holding company. 
Therefore, the Board has concluded that Patagonia is not entitled now 
to a determination by the Board that Pima was its subsidiary on June 30, 
1968. Accordingly, the shares of Pima acquired subsequent to June 30, 
1968, are not entitled to indefinite grandfather protection and Patagonia 
must either divest itself of these shares by December 31, 1980, or obtain 
the Board's approval to retain them under § 4(c)(8) of the Act by that 
date. 
-
The controlling influence test in § 2(a)(2)(C) was added to 
the Act by the 1970 Amendments to give the Beard authority to regulate 
those companies which, in fact, were in control of a bank, yet owned 
less than 25 per cent of the bank's voting shares. Section 2(d)(3) 
was added at the same time to conform the definition of subsidiary to 
the changes made in the tests of control in § 2(a)(2). The legislative 
history of these provisions shows clearly that they were added upon the 
recommendation of the bank regulatory agencies and were intended to 
facilitate the assertion of jurisdiction under the Act. There is nothing* 
in the legislative history to suggest that tkery were also intended to 
facilitate the granting of grandfather benefits. The Board has adopted 
the position, in several cases involving review of grandfather privileges, 
that a company is not entitled to grandfather iprivileges because of a 
claim of having been able to exercise a controlling influence over the 
management or policies of a bank or bank holdi'mg company within the 
meaning of § 2(a)(2)(C) of the Act. The same reasoning which supports 
x this interpretation, of § 2(a)(2)(C) has e q u a l .application to the controlling 
influence definition of a subsidiary in § 2(d))'.(3) . 
Patagonia contends that it had the piower on June 30, 1968, 
to exercise a controlling influence with respaict to the management or 
policies of Pima in two principal ways: 
(1) its ownership of 20.005 per cemt of Pima's shares, 
together with an "announced intention" to acquire additional 
shares if Pima's success continued and Pavtagonia remained 
satisfied with its initial investment, anid 

25M 
John J. Ross, Esq. 
a 
-3-
(2) the "substantial influence" of the Patagonia 
representatives appc nted or elected to Pima's board of 
directors subsequent to its initial stock purchase during 
" -lure, 1967. 
Even if Patagonia were entitled to the type of determination 
it claims, it is clear in the Board's view that the facts of record 
fall short of showing that Patagonia possessed the power on June 30, 
1968, to exercise a controlling influence over Pima. In fact, the record 
establishes that Patagonia did not have the power prior to its additional 
stock purchase in -1969 to exercise a controlling influence. Therefore, 
it was the Board's conclusion, under the controlling influence standard 
urged, that Patagonia could not establish that Pima was its subsidiary" 
on June 30, 1968. While it appears that Patagonia did have some 
influence over the management or policies of Pima, the influence shown, 
in the Board's judgment, did not constitute the power to exercise a 
controlling influence; and there is no factual basis for a Board deter-
mination of control or for initiating Board procedures relating to such 
a determination. 
The Board considered the information of record in light of 
the statutory provisions and legislative history of the Act and judicial 
and administrative decisions under other Federal statutes which contain 
a "controlling influence" provision (notably, the Public Utility Holding 
Company Act of 1935 and the Investment Company Act of 1940). The deci-
sions under these statutes, though not direct precedents and not binding 
on the Board in its interpretation of the controlling influence clauses 
in the Act, were considered .for guidance in identifying criteria of 
significance reflecting the existence of a controlling influence. 
The 20.005 per cent stock interest in Pima held by Patagonia, 
under certain circumstances of stock distribution, would be an important 
factor in showing the power to exercise a controlling influence. In 
this case, however, its significance was substantially diluted by other 
factors. The brief interval of ownership—barely 12 months prior.to the 
grandfather cutoff date—demonstrates that strong historical ties between 
the two companies had not developed. The voting trust, which was formed 
within days after Patagonia's inital stock purchase and which contained 
56_pe"r cent of Pima's shares, was unquestionably a means to assure that 
the power to control remained with the voting trustees. The voting power 
of account holders and borrowers given by proxy to management (i.e., the 
"Pima", rather than the "Patagonia" directors) was an important fact 

John J. Ross, Esq. 
a 
-4-
diminishing the relative .Influence of Patagonia's shares. 
The ability 
to prevent a potential pu.chaser from being able to acquire 80 per cent 
of Pima's shares would to .e on significance only in the special 
circumstances of a pendin; or likely sale to a third party insisting upon 
acquisition of not less than 80 per cent of Pima's shares. Such 
circumstances did not arise and were not expected to arise during the 
12 month period under consideration. 
The announced intention to acquire additional shares of 
Pima is also advanced by Patagonia as an argument in support of its 
power to exercise a controlling influence. The facts of record, however, 
refute this argument. First of all, Patagonia's intention was qualified 
by the necessity for continued success by Pima and continued satisfaction 
with Patagonia's initial investment. Secondly, the record clearly reflects 
that Patagonia was not willing to raise the cash needed to acquire 
additional Pima shares. Patagonia had made no firm decision to purchase 
additional shares, and it had no agreement or understanding with the 
voting trustees to do so. Quite the contrary, the voting trustees were 
actively seeking a sale of their shares to outside parties. It was not 
until October, 1968, or after the grandfather cutoff date, that Patagonia, 
faced with the prospect of losing' the opportunity to acquire the control 
block, negotiated the purchase of additional shares. These facts of 
record, and others, indicate that Patagonia's initial stock purchase and ; 
stated intention to acquire additional shares were not entitled to sub-
stantial weight in showing the power to exercise a controlling influence. 
Patagonia's remaining contention, that is, the "substantial 
influence" exercised by its representatives on Pima's board of directors 
v/as, in the Board's view, equally without substantial merit. There was 
no basis to question the representations that Messrs. Rich, Williams 
v and Money were men of ability and experience who contributed to the^ 
success of Pima during the months under consideration. The Board did 
not, however, view the contributions cited as showing possession of the 
power to exercise a controlling influence. The examples given were much 
more in the nature of constructive advice and counsel offered by board 
members than of illustrations of power and dominance. The relationship 
of the Patagonia and Pima directors (both prior and subsequent to 
June 30, 1968) appears to have been harmonious and productive. Had any 
dispute or disagreement arisen, however, there seems little question 
but that Patagonia would not have prevailed on questions of management 
or policies. Patagonia had two of 14 directors on Pima's board from 

f 
2543 
John J. Ross, Esq. 
a 
-5-
June, 1967 to February, 1968 and three of 15 thereafter until subsequent 
to June 30, 1968. In these circumstances and considering such other 
facts of record as the short interval of time involved, the long and 
successful management experience of the Pima group and its relative 
voting power, the Board concluded that- the influence of Patagonia's 
representatives on Pima's board fell short of showing power to exercise 
a controlling influence. 
Finally, the Board considered the cumulative effects of all 
the factors urged by Patagonia in the overall context of the Patagonia-
Pima relationship during the 12 month period prior to June, 1968. The 
individual contentions of Patagonia gained little in strength when viewed 
collectively under the controlling influence standard of §§ 2(a)(2)(C) 
and 2(d)(3). Thus, Patagonia did not appear to have on June 30, 1968, 
a power to exercise a controlling influence over Pima. 
It should be noted that the Board's action denying Patagonia's 
request is not a preliminary determination of control within the meaning 
of § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y. The procedures outlined in this section 
have application only in cases when the Board has taken the initial step 
in determining that a control relationship exists. The "notice and 
opportunity for hearing" clauses in §§ 2(a)(2)(C) and. 2(d)(3) of the 
Act are intended for the benefit of a company wishing to contest a 
preliminary determination of control by the Board; the clauses have no 
application to Board action denying a request by a bank holding company 
for a preliminary determination. Therefore, Patagonia is not entitled 
to a hearing on this question. 
Very truly yours, 
r -• v . . . . 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester E. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

2544 
Item No. 1 
7/6/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST UNION, INCORPORATED 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Union, Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U*S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90.45 per cent or more of the voting shares 
o f Bank of Kennett, Kennett, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
& 3(b) of the Act. The time for filings comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the second largest bank holding company in Missouri, 
c°ntrols 14 banks with aggregate deposits of $1,059 million, representing 
per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
(Unless 
otherwise indicated, banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved through March 30, 
1/ 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of Bank ($28.9 million 
o f deposits as of December 31, 1972) would increase Applicant's share 
o f deposits in commercial banks in the State by .2 percentage points and 
l7°uld not significantly increase concentration of banking resources in 
Missouri. 
J ? n J u n e 8» 1^73, the Board announced its approval of Applicant's 
mill C a t i o n t o a c cl u i r e Chesterfield Bank, Chesterfield, Missouri ($14.7 
llion of deposits). 

f; ; 2515 
-2-
Bank is the largest of three banks in ICennett, Missouri, and 
is the largest of 17 banks in the Dunklin County banking market, which 
includes also portions of Pemiscot County and Clay County (Arkansas), 
controlling 18 per cent of deposits of commercial banks in this market area. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary bank is located approximately 100 miles 
north of Bank. No competition exists between Bank and any of Applicant's 
subsidiary banks. In view of the distances betx^een Applicant's subsidiary 
banks and Bank and the restrictive Missouri branching laws, it is unlikely 
that significant competition would develop in the future. 
The population of Dunklin County has declined in recent years. 
The population per banking office ratio of the county is approximately one-
third less than the average for Missouri counties of comparable size. 
Although the city of Kennett is experiencing some increased economic growth 
in non-agricultural fields, it appears unlikely, in view of the declining 
Population of the area in general, that Applicant would enter this area 
de novo. In addition, acquisition of Bank by Applicant would not have an 
adverse effect on present or future competition among banks in the Dunklin 
County banking market. Bank has consistently had a low percentage of loans 
2/ 
to total assets. 
Consummation of the proposal could result in greater 
a8gressiveness on the part of Bank in seeking loan customers, thereby stimu-
lating competition among financial institutions and economic growth in Its 
2/~~For example, as of June 30, 1972, Bank's percentage of loans to total 
dePosits equalled 35.7 per cent compared with percentages of 56.7 and 58.6 
cent for the two other barks in Kennett. 

2546 
-3-
market. The Board concludes that consummation of Applicant's proposal would 
not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial condition, managerial resources and future prospects 
°f Applicant, its subsidiaries and Bank appear generally satisfactory. 
Although there is no evidence in the record to indicate that the banking 
needs of the residents of the Dunklin County market are not currently 
being met, affiliation with Applicant would enable Bank to compete over a 
wider range of banking services, including trust and automatic teller 
services. In addition, acquisition by Applicant should provide Bank with 
a Pool of experienced managerial resources necessary to provide additional 
and expanded banking services. These factors, as they relate to the con-
silience and needs of the communities to be served, lend some weight for 
approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition is in the public interest and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 

2547 
-4-
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective July 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
~~ 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
sheehan and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane and Bucher. 

: . 2548 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL CHARTER CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of Commer-
cial Bank of Lexington, Lexington, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
o f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 10 banks with aggregate deposits of $693.9 mil-
lion, representing 5 per cent of the total commercial deposits in Missouri, 
at*<l is the fourth largest bank holding company in the S t a t e A c q u i s i t i o n 
o f Bank (deposits of $16.6 million) would increase Applicant's share of 
dePosits in Missouri insignificantly and its ranking among banking organiza-
tions in the State would be unchanged, 
2/ 
Bank is the larger of two banks 
in the city of Lexington, Missouri 
(population of 5,400) and holds 63 per cent of total commercial deposits 
therein. It is the second largest of 11 banks in its relevant banking niar-
k e t (approximated by the southeastern portion of Ray County and the 
•i/ All banking data-are as of December 31, 1972 and reflect bank holding 
ompany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through May 31, 1973. 
The smaller bank is a recently acquired subsidiary of the third largest 
ulti-bank holding company in the State. 
Item No. 1 
7/6/73 

2549 
-2-
iiorthwestern portion of Lafayette County) controlling 13.5 per cent of deposits 
in that area. Applicant's nearest subsidiary and lead bank is located in 
Kansas City, Missouri, 55 miles west of Lexington. The record indicates that 
there is no significant existing competition between Bank and any of Appli-
cant's subsidiaries. Furthermore, it is not likely that significant future 
competition would develop in view of the distances involved, the numerous 
banking alternatives, and Missouri's restrictive branching laws. Competi-
tive considerations are, therefore, consistent with approval of the appli-
cation. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its subsidiary 
banks, and Bank are regarded as satisfactory; future prospects for all are 
favorable. The banking needs in the Lexington area are, for the most part, 
being met, however, inasmuch as Applicant will offer expanded services, such 
as improvement of Bank's loan operations and management training programs, 
considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community to be 
served are consistent with approval of this acquisition. It is the Board's 
judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) 

2550 
-3-
later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
17 Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Sheehan and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Daane and Bucher. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST BANCSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC., 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Bancshares of Florida, Inc., 3oca Raton, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
First National Bank of Fort Pierce, Fort Pierce, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
r e d persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
w i th § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has ex-
pired, and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the 
application in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
<12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the sixteenth largest banking organization in Florida, 
c°utrol8 six subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $224.7 million, 
^Presenting 1.1 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(Banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect holding company 
f°rmations and acquisitions approved by the Board through May 31, 1973.) 
approval of the acquisition would increase Applicant's percentage share 
o f State deposits by less than two-tenths of a percentage point. 
Bank (deposits of $31.1 million) is the second largest of four 
banks located in St. Lucie County, the relevant market. The largest 
kank in the market holds approximately 54 per cent of market deposits, 
2551 
Item No. 1 
7/6/73 

-2-
while Bank and the third and fourth largest banks hold approximately 30, 
14, and 2 per cent, respectively. The three competing banks are con-
trolled by bank holding companies, including the third largest in the 
State. Applicant's closest banking office is located 15 miles south of 
Bank, and there is no significant competition between any of Applicant's 
subsidiary banks and Bank. Furthermore, in view of the distances 
separating the banks and the prohibition against branch banking in 
Florida, it appears unlikely that any meaningful competition would develop 
between these offices in the future. The Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposal would not eliminate existing or potential competition, nor 
Would it have adverse effects on any competing bank. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial re-
sources and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks and 
Bank are generally satisfactory and consistent with approval of the 
application, particularly in view of Applicant's commitment to inject 
additional equity capital into certain of its subsidiary banks. While 
It appears that major banking needs in the area are being met, considera-
tions relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
are consistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's judg-
m e n t that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 

2553 
-3-
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective juiy 
1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
heehan and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
°aane and Bucher. 

2554 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
7/6/73 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 6, 1973 
First Pennsylvania Corporation 
Fifteenth and Chestnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19102 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of April 11 and 
May 3.0, 1973, the Board of Governors grants consent, pur-
suant to the provisions of Section 4(c) (13) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and Section 225.4(f) 
of Regulation Y, for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
all of the capital stock of First Northamerica Investments, 
Ltd. ("FNIL"), Montreal, Canada, at a total cost of approxi-
mately $2.1 million, provided such shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under 
Section 4(c) (13), FNIL shall confine its activities to inter-
national or foreign banking and other international or foreign 
financial operations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

2555 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/6/73 
IRON CITY EAGLE COAL, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Iron City Eagle Coal, Inc., Lockwood, West Virginia, has applied 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through ac-
quisition of 87.49 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Gauley 
National Bank of Gauley Bridge, Gauley Bridge, West Virginia ("Bank")M 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
® 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
o f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant (wholly owned by its organizers) was incorporated in 1962 
and has engaged in the business of mining coal and selling mining machinery 
a n d equipment. Such activities were discontinued in 1972 and its assets now 
c°nsist entirely of cash. 
Bank (deposits of approximately $11 million) is the only bank in 
Gauley Bridge and the third largest of five banks in the northern half of 
aVette County, the relevant market, where it controls 15.6 per cent of 
Market deposits.—^ As Applicant has no present operations or subsidiaries, 
^ 
The issue of whether State law permits the formation of a bank holding 
^ p a n y i n W e s t Virginia has not been raised with respect to this application. 
a ^ever, in its consideration of the instant application, the Board has noted, 
s
nd relied upon, an opinion by the Attorney General of West Virginia issued 
c
QP.tember 25, 1972, to the effect that section 31A-8-12(b) of the West Virginia 
2, e d o e s not prohibit the formation of bank holding companies within the State, 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1972. 

-2-
t h e proposal essentially involves only a change from individual to corporate 
ownership. Therefore, consummation of the proposal herein would eliminate 
Either existing nor potential competition. 
The management, financial condition, and prospects of Bank are all 
c°nsidered satisfactory. The management of Applicant is essentially the 
same as that of Bank; the financial condition of Applicant and its prospects, 
*hich will depend largely upon Bank, appear to be satisfactory. The ability 
of Eank to extend or improve the range of financial services for this area 
^ y be enhanced as a result of the flexibility afforded by the holding company 
structure. Hence, considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the 
e communities to be served are consistent with approval. It is the Board's 
Jud 
8ment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and 
that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
as°ns summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) before 
h e thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) 
l a t c* than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
^ is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
f Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
_ 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective July 6, 1973. . 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
SA.L] 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
heehan, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
atle and Bucher. 

' I 
•^vrri rrrrr\^i) t: 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 8 
7/6/73 
July 6, 1973 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
/ 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
/ 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Under section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, a Federal 
Reserve Bank may extend credit for periods not exceeding 90 days 
to its member banks on their promissory notes secured by obliga-
tions eligible for discount or purchase by the Reserve Banks. 
Such credit is typically secured by obligations of, and 
obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the 
United States or any agency thereof. Those obligations, plus cable 
transfers, bank acceptances, bills of exchange, and certain muni-
cipal warrants are obligations eligible for purchase by Reserve 
Banks. Obligations eligible for discounting by the Reserve Banks 
are limited to notes issued or drawn for agricultural, industrial, 
or commercial purposes, with a maturity at the time of-discount of 
not more than 90 clays. Under section 14, the Reserve Banks estab-
lish what is described as the "basic" rate of interest on credit to 
member banks under section 13. 
Under section 10(b) of the Act, a Reserve Bank may extend 
credit for periods not exceeding four months to its member banks 
on their promissory notes secured to the satisfaction of the Re-
serve Bank. The law presently requires that the rate of interest 
on such an advance must be one-half per cent higher than the high-
est basic rate in effect at the. lending Reserve Bank. 
For several years the Board of Governors has recommended 
legislation that would permit member banks .to borrow from the 
Reserve Banks on security of any sound assets .without paying such 
a "penalty" rate of interest whenever technically Ineligible paper 
is presented. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
Page 2 
The Board believes that the need for enactment of such 
legislation has increased as member banks have reduced their hold-
ings of Government securities and broadened the scope of t1 - * 
lending in order to meet the expanding credit demands of their 
customers. Many of these loans cannot qualify as security for 
Federal Reserve advances except at the "penalty" rate of interest,^ 
although their quality may be equal to that of presently "eligible 
paper. 
The Board favors authorizing the Reserve Banks to extend 
credit to member banks on sound collateral without regard to the 
present "eligibility" provisions. It again urges such legislation 
to enable the Federal Reserve to be in a position to carry out 
promptly and efficiently one of its principal responsibilities— 
the extension of credit assistance to enable the banking system^ 
to meet the legitimate needs of the economy—and to avoid penali-
zing those uses of credit that generate sound paper that is not 
"eligible" under existing law. 
Such paper would include, for example, homo mortgages 
and municipal obligations that meet the test of soundness. The. 
Board could by regulation prescribe limitations on the maturity 
of the paper offered as collateral. However, presumably all FHA 
and VA guaranteed loans would become eligible for advances. We 
anticipate that making such obligations eligible for advances at 
the same rate as other obligations would tend to encourage member 
banks to increase their portfolio of such obligations. 
The Board urges your early and 'favorable consideration 
of this bill. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

2559 
D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
To enable the Federal Reserve banks to extend cred« « ^ b e r banks 
on any sound collateral at a uniform rate of interest. 
enacted by the Senate and H o ^ o Q ^ e ^ e n t M l v e s _ g f 
Hw. 
States of A ^ l c ^ L - C o . ^ r c s s assembled,, That the last sent-
ence of section 10(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 347b) is 
repealed. 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
July 6, 1973 
Item No. 1 
7/6/73 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Since February 1962, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
has engaged in foreign currency operations on behalf of the System 
Open Market Account and under directions cf the Federal Open Market 
Committee. These operations have been implemented in part by the 
establishment of reciprocal credit balances or "swap" arrangements 
between the New York Reserve Bank and foreign central banks. The 
authorization for System foreign currency operations adopted by the 
Federal Open Market Committee requires that foreign currency Hold-
ings in excess of minimum working balances be invested insofar as 
practicable, and that such investments be in accordance with the 
provisions of section 14(e) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Under section 14(e), idle amounts held by a Reserve Bank 
in an account with a foreign bank may be invested in bills of ex-
change and acceptances that arise out of actual commercial trans-
actions and have maturities of not more than 90 days, or they may 
be placed in an interest-bearing time account with the same or some 
other"foreign bank. However, in certain instances there has been 
a scarcity of such paper for investment, time deposit facilities 
have not always been conveniently available, and, under present law 
such idle funds could not be invested in obligations of foreign 
. governments, such as foreign treasury bills. On the other hand, 
a foreign central bank having a balance or reciprocal credit or 
"swap" arrangement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York may 
invest idle funds in its account with the Reserve Bank m interest-
bearing United States securities. 

^ 5 6 1 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Page 2 
The disadvantage under which the Reserve Bank must operate 
in the foregoing respect would be remedied by an amendment l u sec-
tion 14(e) of the Federal Reserve Act that would specifically au-
thorize Federal Reserve Banks to buy and sell securities with ma-
turities not exceeding 12 months that are issued or guaranteed by 
foreign governments. 
The Board recommends the enactment of such an amendment 
to the law. A suggested draft of a bill for this purpose is en-
closed. 
"v 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

ocrx:-
D R A F T 
A _B I. L L 
To enable Federal Reserve banks to invest in certain obligations of 
foreign governments. 
Be it enacted bv the Senate and Fious^^Oi^g^^lj^-^-- 0-^ 
the United States of America in Congress assembled,, That section 14(e) 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 358) is amended to read as follows: 
11 (e)(1) With the approval or upon the direction 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System and subject to such regulations as the Board 
may prescribe: 
"(/:.) to establish and maintain accounts in 
foreign countries and to appoint correspondents 
and establish agencies in such countries; 
" (B) to buy and sell through sach corres-
pondents or agencies (i) bills of exchange and 
acceptances arising out of actual commercial 
transactions that have not more than ninety 
> 
clays to run, exclusive of days of grace, and 
that bear the signatures of two or more re-
sponsible parties, and (ii) any securities that 
are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed 
as to principal and interest by, any foreign 
• •«;•-.• government or monetary authority and that have 

2 5 G 3 
Page 2 
maturities from date of purchase of not exceed-
ing twelve months and are denominated payable 
in any convertible currency; and 
"(C) to establish and maintain accounts 
for such foreign correspondents or agencies, 
for foreign banks or bankers, or for foreign 
otates as defined in section 25(b) of this Act. 
"(2) Whenever any Federal Reserve bank establishes 
an account or agency or appoints a correspondent pursuant 
to this section, any other Reserve bank, with the approval 
of the Board, may be permitted to conduct, through the 
Reserve bank establishing sueh account or agency or 
appointing such correspondent, any transaction authorized 
by this section, subject to such regulations as the Board 
may prescribe." 

. 2564 
Item No. 10 
7/6/73 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
July 6, 1973 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
/ 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors recommends legislation to encourage 
member banks to participate in the improvement of their communities. 
As leading members of their communities, banks are expected to par-
ticipate in community programs. 
In some cases this responsibility 
can be fulfilled by contributing funds or services. In others, the 
appropriate form of participation is an investment in stock of a 
corporation established for a particular purpose. 
An example of the kind of investment the Board has in mind 
vould be in a corporation to promote the economic rehabilitation and 
development of low-income areas. The Congress has specifically pro-
vided for some participation by banks in corporations for this purpose. 
The Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 amended section 5136 o, 
the Revised Statutes to authorize member banks to purchase stock in 
community development corporations established pursuant to Title IX 
of that Act. 
The Congress has also enacted legislation that serves as 
a basis for bank supervisory agencies to permit member banks to 
participate in community improvement by indirect means. For example 
under the recent amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act the Board 
is authorized to permit a holding company to engage m activities 
that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident 
thereto. Community improvement is one of several activities the 
Board has decided meets that test. 
Some banks, however, prefer to participate in community 

2565 
The Honorable John Sparkroan 
Page 2 
. • 
especially for the purpose of promoting community development. Some 
prefer to use their initiative and establish the type of corporation 
they believe will best serve the particular needs of their community. 
In view of the strong public interest supporting partici-
pation by banks in aiding their communities achieve our national 
goals, the Board recommends that the Congress enact legislation 
specifically authorizing national banks to invest in community cor-
porations, whether chartered or sponsored by the federal or state 
government and whether or not pursuant to a particular statute deal-
ing with community development. 
Such legislation would not itself authorize state member 
banks to invest in community corporations, because the corporate 
power of a state-chartered bank is a matter of state law. None-
theless, it would encourage investments by banks in those states 
that do not prohibit banks from making such investments. It should 
also encourage states that do prohibit such investments to reexamine 
their position. 
To assure, that such investments do not adversely affect 
the soundness of the individual institution, the Comptroller of the 
Currency, as to national banks, and the Board of Governors, as to 
state member banks, should be authorized to impose limitations on 
the nature and scope of such investmentsv • " 
A draft bill for this ' purpose;-' is. enclosed-.' -The Board 
urges its introduction and enactment'." 
'• 
. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
To encourage member banks of the Federal Reserve System to invest in 
community corporations. 
Be It enacted bv ^ 
s^ate and House of_Representatives 
^ 
n ^ ^ 
S^tes of America in Congress as_se^led, That section 5136 
of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24) is amended by adding at the end 
thereof the following: 
"Tenth. To acquire shares of one or more cor-
porations engaged solely in promoting community 
welfare, such as the economic rehabilitation and 
development of low-income areas: Pr?vidcd, That 
in no event shall a bank's aggregate investment 
in such shares exceed 2 per centum of its capital 
stock and surplus. Every investment pursuant to ' 
this paragraph shall be subject to such definitions, 
requirements, and restrictions as may be prescribed 
in regulations or orders issued by the Comptroller 
of the Currency in the case of national banks, or 
by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System in the case of State member banks." 

2 5 ( > 7 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 11 
7/6/73 
* • f^AL 
* * 
July 6, 1973 
The Honorable James 0. Eastland 
Chairman 
Committee on the Judiciary 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Section 212 of Title 18 of the United States Code, "Crimes 
and Criminal Procedure", prohibits a federally insured bank from 
making any loan to any person who examines or has authority to ex-
amine 'such bank. Conversely, section 213 of Title 18 prohibits any 
examiner from obtaining any loan from any federally insured bank 
examined by him. 
While these provisions of law, designed to prevent con-
flicts of interests, are based upon sound principles, the Board 
believes that they unduly and unfairly place bank examiners at a 
serious disadvantage in obtaining various forms of credit. For 
several years the Board has favored modification of the law to 
permit: an insured bank to make a home mortgage loan to a bank ex-
aminer under appropriate statutory safeguards- The Board now be-
lieves that a bank examiner may experience difficulties in being 
prevented from obtaining other forms of bank credit, such as loans 
to finance the education of his children, automobile loans, home 
improvement loans, credit-card loans, and other types of consumer 
credit. Modification of the law to permit loans to be made in 
accordance with regulations of the agency employing the examiner 
would not, in the Board's opinion, defeat or impair the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of these provisions, particularly if the 
examiner never participates in the examination of the lending bank. 
Accordingly, the Board recommends the introduction and 
enactment of appropriate amendments to Title 18 that would au-
thorize an insured bank to make loans to an.examiner in accordance 
with regulations adopted by the Federal agency that employs or 
supervises the examiner, under appropriate statutory safeguards 
designed to avoid possible conflicts of interests. 
/ A draft of;" "'a- bill' for this purpose is ..enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns. 
Enclosure 

2 5 G 8 
D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
To permit certain loans by a federally insured bank to a 
bank examiner. 
•^j,- nn^t-r-d bv the Senate_aj^ous^of. 
of the United States_oLA""-""» 
Congress assembled, That section 
212 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
thereof the following paragraph: 
"Nothing contained herein or in section 213 of this title 
shall prohibit any such officer, director, or employee from making, 
or an examiner or assistant examiner from accepting, from any snch 
bank, corporation, institution, association, or organization, any 
loan that is made in accordance with regulations issued by the Fed-
eral agency that employs or supervises such examiner or assistant 
examiner: Provided, that such examiner or assistant examiner has 
not, and does not at any time, participate in the examination of 
the institution by which the loan is made. For purposes of this 
paragraph, "Federal agency" shall mean the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation." 
