MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 4, 1973 

33fJ'1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 4, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 3:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: 
M r . B u r n s , Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
M r . Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, 
the application of The Hibernia National Bank in New Orleans, New Orleans, 
Louisiana, to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman 
Islands, British West Indies. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

33U5 
9/^/73 
- 2 -
The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the application 
of The First National Bank of Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, to 
establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, British 
West Indies. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Continental 
Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 
to establish an Edge corporation in Houston, Texas, to be called 
Continental Bank International (Texas). A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant, which transmitted a preliminary permit, is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The National 
Bank of Commerce of Seattle, Seattle, Washington, to establish a branch 
in Tokyo, Japan. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Manufacturers 
Hanover Trust Company, New York, New York, to establish an Edge corporation 
in Los Angeles, California, to be called Manufacturers Hanover Bank 
International (Los Angeles). A copy of the letter sent to the applicant, 
which transmitted a preliminary permit, is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bank of the 
Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, to make an investment in bank premises 
in excess of the limitations prescribed by section 24A of the Federal 
Reserve Act. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 6. 

* *«i ?\f» 
9 / ^ / 7 3 
- 3 -
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Tennessee 
National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, to acquire shares of Pence 
Mortgage Company, Louisville, Kentucky, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Economic review. The regular weekly economic and financial 
review was presented. Copies of the statistical materials prepared 
for the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
of the individual briefings. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Marginal reserve requirements. At its meeting on May 16, 1973, 
the Board took various actions relating to monetary policy; among these, 
the Board approved an amendment to Regulation D, Reserves of Member 
Banks, that increased the reserve requirement to 8 per cent (the regular 
5 per cent plus a supplemental 3 per cent) on large-denomination certificates 
of deposit and related domestic instruments issued by member banks in excess 
of the amount outstanding as of the statement week ending May 16. Governor 
Holland and the Division of Research and Statistics, in memoranda of 
August 10, 1973, and August 31, 1973, respectively, discussed certain 
issues related to a possible further amendment to Regulation D requiring 
reserves of 11 per cent (an additional 3 per cent) on such time deposits 
and related instruments in excess of the base amount. 

3337 
9 / ^ / 7 3 
- 4 -
Today's discussion focused primarily on the implications of a 
further increase in marginal reserve requirements in the light of the 
current economic situation and the thrust of monetary policy. The increase 
in reserve requirements on large-denomination certificates of deposit, 
as well as on related domestic bank instruments issued by member banks, 
was proposed as a measure that, while having only a minimal impact on 
the narrow money supply, would help to provide gradual restraint of the 
rapid rate of expansion—particularly at large banks—in the issuance of 
such CD's and in bank credit to business firms. The action would also 
help to dispel the apparent belief by some market observers that monetary 
policy already had become easier. 
During the discussion, attention also was focused on the 
ramifications of the proposed increase in marginal reserve requirements 
on the operations of the System Open Market Account; on the discount 
rate; on other sectors of the economy, particularly housing; and on the 
Federal funds rate and other interest rates in the money market and at 
commercial banks. The timing of any such action also was considered, 
with opinions varying as to the advisability of proceeding at once or 
deferring action for 2 or 3 weeks. 
Because Board members expressed a desire to have more time to 
consider the proposed amendment, it was agreed to continue the discussion 
at tomorrow's meeting. 

3398 
9 / ^ / 7 3 
- 5 -
Interpretation of conversion penalty amendment to Regulation Q. 
At its meeting on August 23, 19 73, the Board approved an amendment to 
Regulation Q , Interest on Deposits, effective September 10, 1973, that 
would treat as a payment of a time deposit before maturity any amendment 
to a time deposit contract that would result in either an increase in 
interest rate or a change in the maturity of the deposit. 
In a memorandum of August 31, 1973, the Legal Division recommended 
that the Board determine that amendments after September 10, 1973, to 
time deposits that had been issued prior to July 5, 1973—the date of 
major revisions in Regulation Q—would not be considered as being paid 
prior to maturity and therefore such deposits would not be subject to 
the new conversion penalties approved on August 23, 1973. The Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, however, had been interpreting its new 
conversion penalty amendment to apply its old penalty rule to conversions 
on or after September 10 of pre-July 5 deposits. 
In today's discussion, Board members expressed a desire, in 
clarifying the applicability of its conversion penalty amendment to 
pre-July 5 deposits, to establish uniformity with the FDIC's position. 
The Board therefore unanimously determined that its old penalty 
rule, which is similar to that of the FDIC, would be applied to pre-July 5 
time deposits that are amended on or after September 10, 1973, to increase 
the interest rate or change the maturity of the deposit. A copy of the 
wire sent to all Federal Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 8. 

3339 
9 / ^ / 7 3 
- 6 -
Request for Board's views on Treasury proposal. Governor Holland 
stated that a request had been received from the Department of the 
Treasury for the Board's views on a proposal for a tax credit for 
mortgage lenders. 
Discussion by Board members and members of the staff familiar 
with the proposal indicated dissatisfaction with the tax credit arrangement 
as proposed, and the Board decided against making a formal response at 
this time. The Board agreed, however, that the Secretary of the Treasury 
would be informally advised of the Board's views on this proposal. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3400 
B G A R D • F • • V E R N C 1 R S 
Item No. 1 
•oVco^r.
 
U F T H E 
9/4/73 
F E D E R A L 
R E B E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
.
W
A
S
H
I
N
G
T
O
N
, 
D, C. 20551 
l" , ;' ••/,-» . 
address urriciAi. correspondence 
• 
TD THE! BOARD 
••T^ures^;-' 
September 5, 1973 
The Hibcrnio National Bank 
.in New Orleans 
P. 0, Box 61540 
New Orleans, Louisiana 
70161 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to The Hibernia National Bank in New Orleans, 
New Orleans, Louisiana, pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 5 
of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Georgetown, 
Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, and to operate and maintain such 
branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M . 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will bo. used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It Is also understood that there is to be no contact 
with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by 
another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
of these types of activities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
or modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
without benefit of the exclusions in provisos (1) and (2) of Sec-
tion 2.13.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate informa-
tion covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your 
head office and will be available to the Board and its accredited 
representatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any modi-
fication in the branch's methods of operation, including changes in 
any contract under which services are supplied to the branch. 

3-101 
The Hibernia National Bank 
in New Orleans 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before September 1, 1974, all rights granted heresy 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca 
tion of the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside oi the 
States'of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt 
from any limitations on rates oC interest prescribed in Secticn 1J 
and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D. The gene.a 
purpose of these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United 
States banks to compete abroad with foreign banks. In these circum-
stances, it has long been and continues to be the policy o L thu 
Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by United States rcsx-
dents at foreign branches of United States banks unless such uenosit. 
have boen placed to serve, a definite, necessary purpose in connection 
with foreign or international transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of tle L a 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on t ^ W l 
ance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition tnat m 
the conduct: of the branch's operations maximum reliance wil 
be placed 
on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly 
it i-
understood that any investment required will be made within Lhc 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and 
its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

• 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
U F THE": 
I t e i T 1 N o * 
2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9 / 4 / 7 3 
• $ ( r ? 
' - V '' 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
, 
L L J L F F M ^ ; 
A D O R E S S 
D T F I C I A L 
C O R P E S P O N D E N C E 
* • ^ S ^ R V 
;• • 
' 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
S e p t erab cr 5 . "J. 9 7 3 
The First National Bank of Birmingham 
F. 0. Box 11.007 
Birmingham, Alabama 
35288 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to First National Bank of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, Alabama, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 
of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Georgetown, 
Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, and to operate and maintain such 
branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of 
Regulation M, 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in 
the United States, 
It is also understood that there is to be 
no contact with the local public at the branch, and that its 
quarters, staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be 
supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
of these types of activities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
or modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213,7 of Regulation M 
without benefit of the exclusions in provisos (1) and (2) of 
Section 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate 
information covering the branch's operations will be maintained 
at your head office and will be available to the Board and its 
accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed 
of any modification in the branch's methods of operation, including 
changes in any contract under which services are supplied to the 
branch. 

3403 
First: National Bank 
of Birmingham 
-2-
Unless liift branch is actually established, and opened for 
business on or before September 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact: location of the branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the 
States of the United States and the District of Columbia arc 
exempt from any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in 
Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are 
not generally subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D. 
The general purpose of these exemptions is to allow foreign branches 
of United States banks to compete abroad with foreign banks. 
In 
these circumstances. It has long been and continues to be the 
policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by 
United Ststes residents at foreign branches of United States banks 
unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary 
purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In 
view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
on the condition that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to your bank and its affiliates 0 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B . Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

. 3-19*1 
B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or the 
Item No. 3 
v ; " 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9/4/73 
' v j ' < VAV 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2055', 
ADOREEifj O'TICIAI. nDRRESPDNDENCE 
fb 
K'^^A^ »* 
TD Thr HOARD 
••f^rRt^v 
September 5, 1973 
Continental Illinois National Bank 
and Trust Company of Chicago 
231 South La Salle Street-
Chicago, Illinois 
60693 
Gentlemen: 
The Bonrd of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated May 31, 1973, 
of Continental Bank International (Texas), and there is enclosed 
a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise 
such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act as arc incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the president, 
treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the direc-
tors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United 
States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held 
and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations the con-
trolling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, 
chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State of the 
United States or by firms or companies the controlling interest in 
which ia owned by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the 
authorized capital stock specified in the Articles of Association 
at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and that each share-
holder has individually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his 
stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall 
certify to the payment of the remaining instalments as and when each 
is paid in, in accordance with law. The request for a final permit 
should be forwarded to die Board via tlie Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 

3405 
Continental Illinois National Bank 
and Trust Company of Chicago 
-2-
Your attention is directed to the fact that Continental 
Bank International (Texas), Houston, Texas, will have no separate 
base under the foreign credit restraint effort and that any foreign 
loans and investments will need to be made under the ceiling of 
Continental National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago. 
Accordingly, 
the foregoing approval is given on the condition that any foreign 
loans and investments of the Corporation will be made within the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to Continental 
National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago. 
Very t ruly you rs, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Knclosure 

3106 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
S O B 5 I 
September 5, 1973 
Pre li.Tn5.nary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this 
day approved the Articles of Association and Organization Cer-
tificate dated May 31, 1973, of CONTINENTAL BANK INTERNATIONAL 
(TEXAS) duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
CONTINENTAL BANK INTERNATIONAL (TEXAS) is authorized to exercise 
such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are. 
incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
of a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with 
the provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
pursu ant there t o. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B y 
(Signed) Chester B . Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3407 
B O A R D • F G G V E R N D f :5 
Item No. 4 
D r T H E 
9/4/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20SS1 
A o D f J e £i n a f • r i n i A a o R- r r«; P n N D C N 
> - -
 
v>
; 
' 
td the. board 
September 5, 1973 
The National Bank of Commerce of Seattle 
Sea 111 e, Washing ton 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors grants its permission to The 
National Bank of Commerce of Seattle, Seattle, Washington, pursuant 
to l:he provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
establish a branch in Tokyo, Japan, and to operate and maintain 
such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of 
Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before September 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have, been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date, 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Tokyo. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign crediL restraint effort. In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on 
the balance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition 
that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will 
be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. 
Further-
more, it is understood that the investment required will be made in 
conformity with the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply 
to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B . Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3408 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
.• 
.. 
or THE
 
I t e m 
N o - 5 
. • • ^ i ^ V - 
q/A/71 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9 / 4 / 7 3 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
205D1 
ADDRESS n V FICIA L CQRRFSPDMDfKnE 
T a T H E : 
B a A R D 
September 5, 1973 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company 
350 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated July 3, 1973, of 
Manufacturers Hanover Bank International (Los Angeles), Los 
Angeles, 
California, and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing 
that; Corporation to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K , 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit, from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. 
Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States: (2) 
that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned by 
citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling interest 
in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered under the 
laws of the United States or of a State of the United States or by 
firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens 
of the United States; and (3) that: of the authorized capital stock specified 
in the Articles of Association at least 2.5 per cent has been paid in in 
cash and that: each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 
25 per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer or 
secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining instalments as 
and when each is paid in, in accordance with law-. The request for a 
final permit should be forwarded to the Board via the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Manufacturers 
Hanover Bank International (Los Angeles) will have no separate base 

3409 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company 
- 2 -
i... „ n. M.„ 1' T l f- effort and that any foreign loans 
under the foreign credit r e s t i a m t c n o i t auu 
3 
c 
a
^
U
^
n
^
U 
need t„ b e « d e under C e c e r I x ^ o 
M n 
ac u i ^ 
^ 
Hanover Trust Company. 
A c c o r d i n g l y , the 
ore o w 
h 
; 
m 
condition that any foreign loans and investments 
c 
or 
be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as the> apply 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company and its affiliates. 
Very truly y o u r s , 
(Signed) Chester B . Feldberg 
Chester B . Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

3 1 
F E D E R A L . 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 
2 D 5 5 I 
September 5, 1.973 
P v- I *t wi »"> v\r 
v-m* 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated July 3, 1973, of MANUFACTURERS HANOVER BANK INTERNATIONAL (LOS 
ANGELES) duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that MANUFACTURERS 
HANOVER BANK INTERNATIONAL (LOS ANGELES) is authorized to exercise such 
of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental 
and preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the Board 
of: Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally 
to commence business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 
25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• 
3
4
H 
. • • q V g o Y . . . 
• f 
T H e 
1 1 e m 
N o . 
6 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
9/4/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
''VV^flHif.^'^/ 
ADDUCES OFFICIAL CURMESPONOCNCE 
i^^UJtWvC,'"
5 .* 
TD THE BOARD 
September 4, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Bank of the Commonwealth 
Detroit, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors approves, under the provisions of 
Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Bank, an additional investment 
in bank premises by Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, 
of an amount not to exceed $200,000 in connection with installa-
tion of a drive-in system at the Gratiot-Eight Mile Branch, 
acquisition of property adjoining the Seven Mile-James Couzens 
Branch, and misce 1laneous building and branch improvements, in-
cluding a new elevator at the main office. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

3412 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/4/73 
FIRST TENNESSEE NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Pence Mortgage Company 
First Tennessee National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire not less than 99 per 
cent of the voting shares of Pence Mortgage Company, Louisville, Kentucky 
("Company"), a company that engages in originating, selling and servicing 
real estate mortgages, construction lending, and the offering of credit 
accident and health insurance in connection with such extensions of credit, 
Applicant has also applied for authority of Company to offer credit life 
insurance in connection with such extensions of credit. Such activities 
have been determined by the Board to be closely related to the business of 
banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), (3), and (9). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 138). The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Tennessee, controls 
eight banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.2 billion, repre-
1/ 
senting 11.5 per cent of the total commercial deposits in the State. 
1/ Includes acquisitions approved through August 26, 1973. Applicant has 
an application pending before the Board to acquire Jackson State Bank, 
Jackson, Tennessee, with deposits of $15 million. 

3413 
-2-
Applicant's lead bank, The First National Bank of Memphis, Memphis, 
Tennessee ("First National"), with deposits of approximately $994 million 
2/ 
is the largest bank in the Memphis SMSA. 
All of Applicant's subsidiary 
banks originate and service mortgage loans for their own account. In addi-
tion, First National originates and services mortgages for the accounts of 
others. Applicant's nonbanking subsidiaries engage in mortgage banking, 
investment and management services, personal property and equipment leasing, 
trust services, and underwriting, as reinsurer, credit life and disability 
insurance. None of Applicant's bank or nonbanking subsidiaries originate 
or service mortgages in the market areas served by Company. 
On the basis of its loan servicing volume ($194 million on June 30, 
1972), Company is the largest mortgage banking firm headquartered in the 
Louisville, Kentucky, SMSA (which includes Jefferson County, Kentucky, 
and Clark and Floyd Counties, Indiana) and is ranked 129th in the United 
3/ 
States. 
it is engaged primarily in originating, selling and servicing 
4/ 
all types of real estate mortgages and construction lending. 
Company also 
has offices in Clearwater, Florida, and Indianapolis, Indiana, which are 
newly established and have operated less than a full fiscal year. 
2/ All bonking data are as of December 31, 1972. 
3/ Company has an office in Louisville, Kentucky, and an office in 
Clarksville, Indiana; the service area of these two offices is the 
Louisville, Kentucky, SMSA. 
4/ Company, through two subsidiaries, holds certain real property for 
development. Company and Applicant have stated their intention to dispose 
of these holdings within six months. 

3414 
-3-
During fiscal year 1973, Company's total originations of permanent mortgages 
was approximately $48 million, its mortgage servicing volume was $202 million 
and total closings of construction and development loans were $19.5 million. 
It appears that Company's market share in any of its business activities in 
the Louisville SMSA is less than 20 per cent. Company derives no business 
from the service areas of any of Applicant's subsidiaries. 
Since Applicant and Company do not compete in the same mortgage 
loan cr construction loan markets, the proposed acquisition would eliminate 
no direct competition. Although it appears that both Applicant and Company 
could enter each other's market de novo, consummation of the proposal 
herein would not add significantly to the existing level of market concen-
tration or result in an undue concentration of financial resources in any 
market. 
Company is engaged in the sale of credit accident and health 
Insurance in connection with its extensions of credit. In addition to these 
insurance activities, Applicant proposes to engage £e novo in the sale of 
credit life insurance in connection with its extensions of credit through 
Company. Due to the limited nature of its insurance activities, it does 
not appear that Company's engagement in such activities would have any sig-
nificant effect on either existing or potential competition. 
Approval of the proposed acquisition will make available to 
Company the financial resources of Applicant, and thereby provide Company an 
additional source of working capital enabling it to increase its lines of 
credit for construction and development lending. These increased capabilities 
are positive factors in terms of public needs and convenience. 

3415 
-4-
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations in the record, 
the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest factors 
the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable, and the 
application is hereby approved subject to the following condition: divest-
iture of real property held for development by Company's two wholly-owned 
subsidiaries within six months after consummation of the proposed acquisi-
tion. This determination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
or termination of the activities of a holding company or any cf its subsidi-
aries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions 
and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued 
thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. The transaction shall be consum-
mated not later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 5, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

3416 
Item No. 8 
TO ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
9/4/73 
Regarding Board action August 23 amending § 217.4(d) of 
Regulation Q, effective September 10, to treat amendment of time 
deposit contracts as payment before maturity, Board has received in-
quiries as to treatment, under new conversion-penalty rule, after the 
effective date, September 10, of "pre--July 5" time deposits that have 
not been extended, renewed or amended since July 5. 
"Pre-July 5" time deposits are subject to the old penalty 
rule that states that a bank may pay time deposit before maturity only in 
an emergency where early withdrawal is necessary to prevent great bard-
ship to the depositor, plus fcrefeiture of three months accrued, unpaid 
interest. Under these rules a member bank may permit amendment of 
pre-July 5" time deposit after September 10 only where a depositor 
would qualify for withdrawal prior to maturity based on an emergency 
where early withdrawal Is necessary to prevent great hardship. 
Hie 
Board's treatment of "pre-July 5" time deposits after September 10 
substantially similar to penalty provisions imposed by the FDIC 
'Applicable to similar time deposits issued by nonmember banks. 
