MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 29, 1973 

1 0 1 0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 29, 1973. 
The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 2/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
M r . Sheehan 
M r . Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0
1
Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
M r . Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
M r . Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
M r . Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
i/ 
Attended morning session only. 
U 
Withdrew from morning session at point indicated in 
minutes; attended afternoon session. 

3/29/73 
-2-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, to invest in 
bank premises. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Continental 
International Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire 
additional shares of Societe Immobiliere Les Hesperides, Casablanca, 
Morocco. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of The First 
National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, to establish Edge corpo-
rations in San Francisco and Los Angeles, California, to be known as 
First Chicago International, San Francisco, and First Chicago Inter-
national, Los Angeles. Copies of the letters sent to the applicant, 
which transmitted preliminary permits, are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bank of 
Virginia Company, Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares of General 
H n a n c e Service Corporation, Huntingdon, Pennsylvania, and authorized 
rssuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
i t e m N o . 5. 

3/29/73 
-2-
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation in a memorandum of March 27, 1973, the Board unanimously 
approved a letter to counsel for Great Western Producers Cooperative 
expressing the conclusion that the involvement by a broker/dealer in 
arranging financial transactions related to the acquisition by Great 
Western Producers of shares of Great Western Sugar Company did not 
violate section 220.7(a) of Regulation T , Credit by Brokers and Dealers. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Standby letters of credit. The Interagency Coordinating Commit-
tee on Bank Regulation had recently discussed the use of bank letters 
of credit to guarantee a corporation's commercial paper. 
(The "letter 
of credit", printed on the back of the corporation's note, is addressed 
to "Bearer" and contains the bank's obligation to pay the amount of 
the note upon default by the corporation.) 
The Coordinating Committee 
had agreed on the importance of developing means of monitoring and 
controlling standby letters of credit. 
In that regard, the Comptroller 
the Currency had proposed to issue rulings that would treat standby 
letters of credit the same as conventional loans for purposes of the 
lending limits of the National Bank Act. 
In a memorandum dated March 27, 1973, the Legal Division presented 
several alternative positions that the Board might take with respect to 
such letters of credit. The Division recommended that (1) the Board 

lOi.l 
3/29/73 
-4-
urge the Comptroller to rule that the issuance of standby letters of 
credit to guarantee commercial paper is not within the powers of a 
national bank; and (2) the Board strongly discourage the issuance of 
standby letters of credit by State member banks. 
After discussion the Board approved the staff recommendation, 
with the understanding that the Board's position regarding this 
matter would be conveyed to the Coordinating Committee. 
Working-capital acceptances. On February 1, 1973, the Board 
considered alternative policies it might wish to adopt regarding 
member bank use of working-capital acceptances, also known as finance 
acceptances. At that time the Board had elected not to take a position 
regarding bank use of such acceptances. 
In a memorandum dated March 27, 1973, the Legal Division 
reported that the Comptroller of the Currency had decided to go 
forward with a ruling that the any-one-customer limitations, or 
lending limits, of the National Bank Act apply to working-capital 
acceptances. 
Staff recommended that the Board concur in that ruling. 
After discussion it was agreed that the Board would give 
additional consideration to the matter following its being discussed 
further by the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
All staff members except Messrs. Holland and Melnicoff then 
withdrew and M r . Burke, Director, Division of Personnel Administration, 
entered the room. 

6 
3/29/73 
-12-
Personnel matters. Governor Sheehan, as Chairman of the 
Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities, referred to the action 
by the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston in 
voting to appoint Mr. James A. Mcintosh, presently Director of the 
Board's Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, to the position 
of First Vice President at the Boston Bank for the unexpired portion 
of the five-year term ending February 29, 1976. Governor Sheehan 
explained that his Committee recommended Board approval of this 
appointment but felt that the salary of $45,000 per year proposed by 
the Boston Bank was out of line with Reserve Bank standards, and 
recommended approval of a salary of no more than $40,000 per year. 
After discussion, the Board approved the appointment of 
Mr. Mcintosh as First Vice President of the Boston Bank, at an annual 
salary of $40,000. 
It was expected that the effective date of the 
appointment would be at a mutually agreeable date, probably around 
the end of June. 
Mr. Burke withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
M r . Holland then recommended that, if M r . Mcintosh accepted 
the position of First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston, the Board appoint Mr. Ronald G. Burke, currently Director of 
the Division of Personnel Administration, to succeed Mr. Mcintosh as 
Director of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, at an 
annual salary of $37,000. He recommended that the appointment be made 

1015 
3/29/73 
-12-
effective at a mutually agreeable date, probably late April. As of 
that same date, he recommended that M r . Mcintosh be appointed Assistant 
to the Board, in which capacity he could assist M r . Burke, continue 
to function as Staff Director for the System Committee on Cost Improve-
ment, and perform such other duties as the Governors requested until 
his resignation to accept the position at the Boston Bank. 
After discussion, the Board approved M r . Holland's recommen-
dations. Mr. Holland also advised the Board that he was negotiating 
with a Federal Reserve Bank to hire a senior level operations officer 
to serve with Mr. Burke as Deputy Director of the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations. He also advised that he was negotiating 
with another Reserve Bank for a senior personnel officer to succeed 
Mr. Burke in the Division of Personnel Administration. 
(Note: Mr. Burke's appointment as Director of the Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations was subsequently made effective 
May 27, 1973. Mr. Mcintosh's resignation as a member of the Board's 
staff was effective June 15, 1973, on which date he became First 
Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.) 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point, as 
did Mr. Melnicoff. 
Presidency at Richmond. 
Chairman Burns invited consideration 
of a letter of March 21, 1973, from M r . Robert W . Lawson, Jr., Chairman 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, submitting the names of four 

ioit; 
3/29/73 
-7-
individuals whom the Board of Directors of the Richmond Bank would 
be willing to elect as President of that Bank. 
(A copy of the letter 
has been placed in the Secretary's confidential file.) 
The Board members discussed the qualifications of each of 
the individuals proposed by the Richmond directors , and also a number 
of additional persons who had been suggested from other sources as 
possible nominees. After deliberation, the Board decided that it 
would be willing at this time to approve any one of six specified 
men as President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond if the 
Richmond directors should so recommend. With respect to one of the 
individuals proposed by the Richmond directors, the Board members 
indicated that they were not well enough informed regarding his 
qualifications to make a decision at this time, but agreed that upon 
the provision of additional information they would be willing to 
consider adding his name to the preferred list. 
In addition, for internal purposes, the Board members agreed 
on a secondary listing of five individuals whom they might be willing 
to consider approving as President if none of the men on the preferred 
list or any other similarly qualified individual was available. 
The Board directed Mr. Holland to communicate the contents of 
the preferred list to Chairman Lawson. 
(Note: 
A more detailed version 
of the discussion at today's meeting has been placed in the Secretary's 
confidential file.) 

ion? 
3/29/73 
-8-
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Special 
Library at 3:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
M r . O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . O'Connell, General Counsel 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
M r . Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
M r . Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Bankers International Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated 
March 15, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recom-
mended approval of the application of Bankers International Corpo-
ration, New York, Mew York, to acquire shares of BTHK, Limited, Hong 
Kong, and for the latter to issue certain debt obligations. 
Attached 
was a draft letter to the applicant. 
The Board unanimously approved the application with the 
understanding that certain changes would be made in the draft letter. 
A copy of the letter in the form sent to the applicant is attached 
as Item No. 7. 
First City Bancorporation of Texas. 
In a memorandum of 
March 19, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the 

1 0 1 8 
3/29/73 
-12-
Banking Markets Section recommended approval of the application of 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire 
shares of Antoine National Bank, Houston, Texas, a proposed new bank. 
The application was approved unanimously after it was learned 
that First City Bancorporation would be placing additional capital 
in some of its subsidiary banks. 
Issuance of an order reflecting 
the Board's decision was authorized. A copy is attached as Item N o . 8. 
Orbanco, Inc. Today's agenda called for consideration of the 
application of Orbanco, Inc. , Portland, Oregon, to acquire indirectly 
shares of Far West Securities Co., Spokane, Washington. After discus-
sion action on the application was deferred, with the understanding 
that the staff would provide additional information. 
First National City Bank. 
In a memorandum dated February 27, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of First National City Bank, New York, New York, 
to acquire shares of Cititrust (Cayman) Ltd., Grand Cayman, Cayman 
Islands. 
Cititrust's plans called for offering a wide range of trust 
and other services to corporations and individuals wishing to place 
funds in the Cayman Islands. 
The only issue in this application 
concerned Cititrust's offering these tax-shelter services to U . S. 
residents. 

. J. - 3 
3/29/73 
-10-
After discussion the Board denied the application, Governor 
Daane dissenting. Governor Daane requested, however, that this matter 
be reviewed with Chairman Burns and if he agreed, the application 
would be brought back to the Board when all members could participate. 
Patagonia Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated March 28, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of Patagonia Corpo-
ration, Tucson, Arizona, to acquire through its subsidiary, Model 
Finance Company, shares of Creditel Corporation, Omaha, Nebraska. 
Patagonia Corporation controlled one bank in Phoenix and 
the capital of this bank was low. However, it was felt that a decision 
on this application should not be conditioned on the improvement of 
the capital position of the Phoenix bank. 
In a memorandum dated March 28, 1973, the Legal Division 
discussed a covenant between Model Finance Company and the President 
of Creditel Corporation not to compete. 
Comment was made that since Congress gave the Board the right 
to promote competition it should not approve this application with 
such a covenant. Comment also was made that the covenant between 
Model Finance Company and Creditel Corporation meant that a capability 
was merely being purchased as Creditel's President would be retained 
by Patagonia for a five-year period and he would covenant not to 
compete for a period of ten years within the area presently serviced 

IOaIO 
3/29/73 
-11-
by Creditel. The Board's legal staff felt that the use of such 
a covenant as a basis for denial was questionable. 
After further discussion it was agreed that the application 
would be considered again at the meeting tomorrow. 
First National Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum of January 8, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of First National 
Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of The Routt 
County National Bank of Steamboat Springs, Steamboat Springs, Colorado. 
In a related memorandum dated January 29, 1973, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation commented on the Justice Department's 
view that the entry of First National Bancorporation into the Steamboat 
Springs banking market through acquisition of The Routt County National 
Bank would have an adverse effect on competition. The Division felt 
that this issue had been considered and that approval of the application 
was warranted. 
After discussion the Board approved the application, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. 
It was understood that implementing 
documents would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Fort Worth National Corporation. 
In a memorandum of February 14, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of The Fort Worth 
National Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, to acquire shares of Exchange 

1 0 2 1 
3/29/73 
-12-
Bank & Trust Company, Dallas, Texas. Other documentation included 
a memorandum of March 26, 1973, in which M r . Leavitt referred to the 
applicant's grandfathered nonbanking activities, noted that most of 
the activities were permissible or would be disposed of, and indicated 
that the Chairman of Fort Worth National Corporation had stated that 
he would accept a Board decision on phasing out the real estate 
development activities about which a question still existed. 
At today's meeting suggestion was made that Fort Worth 
National Corporation should be given two years to divest its real 
estate development activities and that no new projects should be 
acquired. 
The application was approved unanimously on the understanding 
that the applicant would divest its real estate development activities 
within a two-year period. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
in the form attached as Item No. 9. 
Deposit Guaranty Corp. 
In a memorandum dated January 24, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended denial of the application of Deposit Guaranty Corp., 
Jackson, Mississippi, to acquire shares of Bridges Loan & Investment 
Company, Inc., also of Jackson. Other documentation included a memo-
randum dated January 22, 1973, in which M r . Leavitt recommended approval 
°f the application. 
After a brief discussion it was understood that 
s
taff would confer with representatives of the applicant regarding the 

14 
3/29/73 
-12-
feasibility of requiring Deposit Guaranty to spin off the Jackson 
area portion of Bridges mortgage portfolio as a condition to approval 
of the application. 
The application would then be brought back to 
the Board for further consideration. 
Merchants National Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated March 9, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of Merchants National 
Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to Circle Leasing Corp., Indianapolis, Indiana. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 10. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

•f^LRE Stf.' 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/29/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 29, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Bank of the Commonwealth 
Detroit, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors approves, under the provisions of 
Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act, an additional investment 
in bank premises by Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, of 
an amount not to exceed $289,000 in connection with construction of 
a new building for the Cherry Hill-Venoy Branch, Westland, Michigan. 
Very truly yours, 
/-'(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No 
• r the 
3/29/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D, 
C. 20551 
A O O R C S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C T 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
March 29, 1973 
Continental Illinois Finance Corporation 
231 South La Salle Street 
Chicago, 111inois 
60 690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of January 31 and 
February 21, 1973, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation to purchase and hold additional shares of 
Societe Iinmob.i liere Les Hesperides ("Les Hesperides"), 
Casablanca, Morocco, thereby increasing your interest to 
50 per cent, provided the shares are acquired within one yea-
from the date of this letter and that the total cost of your 
interest in Les Hesperides will be $218,000. 
The Board
1
s consent is given with the condition 
that Les Hesperides will confine its activities to holding 
title to real estate used by Banque Americano-Franco ~Sui s s e. 
pour le Maroc.. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition 
that the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit 
Fx'Straiut Guidelines as they apply to Continental Illinois 
National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago and its affiliate-
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1025 
B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
OF THE 
3/29/73 
" 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E B B 
O R R I C I A L 
C Q H R E S P CJ N D C N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 29, 1973 
The First National Bank of Chicago 
One First National Plaza 
Chicago, Illinois 
60670 
Gent lemon: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Asso-
ciation and the Organization Certificate, dated January 24, 1973, 
of First Chicago International, San Francisco, and there is enclosed 
a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise such 
of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
as are incidental, and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation IC, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the powers conferred by Sec-
tion 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board author-
izing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will issue 
its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, or 
secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must certify 
(1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; (2) that a 
Majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned by citizens 
of the United States, by corporations the controlling interest in 
V;
M.ch is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered under the 
!aws of the United States or of a State of the United States or by 
firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by cit-
izens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
has been paid in in casli and that each shareholder has individually 
Paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment 
the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accord-
ance with law. 
«»• >»». 
Your attention is directed to the fact that First Chicago 
international, San Francisco will have no ceiling of its own under 

llwi 
The First National Bank of Chicago 
-2-
the Foreign Credit Restraint Program and the foregoing approval is 
given on condition that any foreign loans and investments of the 
Corporation will be made within the Guidelines as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of The First National Bank 
of Chicago and its affiliates. 
The request for a final permit should be forwarded to the 
Board via the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

1027 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• 
F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C . 2 0 5 5 1 
March 29, 1973 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated January 24, 1973, of FIRST CHICAGO INTERNATIONAL, SAN FRANCISCO, 
duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that FIRST CHICAGO 
INTERNATIONAL, SAN FRANCISCO is authorized to exercise such of the 
powers conferred upon It by said Section 25(a) as are incidental 
and preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance v.'itli the provisions 
of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
/ (Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Snith 
Secretary of the Board 

10*18 
Item No. 4 
B O A R D 
OF* G O V E R N O R S 
3/29/73 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE HOARD 
March 29, 1973 
The First National Bank of Chicago 
One First National Plaza 
Chicago, Illinois 
60670 
Gentlemon: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated January 24, 
1973, of First Chicago International, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
California, and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing 
that Corporation to exercise such of the powers conferred by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and 
preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the powers conferred by 
Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. 
Before the Board 
will issue its final permit to commence business, the president, 
treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the 
directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the 
United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock 
is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations 
the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the 
United States, chartered under the laws of the United States or of 
a State of the United States or by firms or companies the con-
trol ling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States; 
and (3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in the 
Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in in 
cash and that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at 
least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the 
treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment of the re-
ma ining"1 nsta 1 ments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with 
law. 

10^9 
The First National Bank of Chicago 
-2-
Your attention is directed to the fact that First 
Chicago International, Los Angeles will have no ceiling of its 
own under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program and the foregoing 
approval is given on condition that any foreign loans and investments 
of the Corporation will be made within the Guidelines as they apply 
to the foreign lending and investment activities of The First National 
Bank of Chicago and its affiliates. 
The request for a final permit should be forwarded to the 
Board via the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

1030 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O . C . 
2 D 5 5 I 
March 29, "1973 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in 
it by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has 
this day approved the Articles of Association and Organization 
Certificate dated January 2A, 1973, of FIRST CHICAGO INTERNATIONAL, 
LOS ANGELES duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
FIRST CHICAGO INTERNATIONAL> LOS ANGELES is authorized to exercise 
such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as 
are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with 
the provisions of said Section 2.5(a) and the rules and regulations 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
K
'.y 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 5 
3/29/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
. 1031 
BANK OF VIRGINIA COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of General Finance Service Corporation 
Bank of Virginia Company, Richmond, Virginia, a bank holding 
company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y , to acquire all of the shares 
°f General Finance Service Corporation, Huntingdon, Pennsylvania 
\ General"), Notice of the application affording opportunity for in-
terested persons to submit comments and views has expired, and none 
has been received. 
Applicant, with sixteen subsidiary banks, is the fourth 
largest banking organization in Virginia indirectly holding deposits 
°f $931.9 million, representing 8.6 per cent of State deposits. 
(All 
deposit data are as of December 31, 1972.) 
General is a consumer finance holding company, its subsidiaries 
specializing in making personal loans and purchasing installment sales 
finance contracts. The subsidiaries of General also engage in the sale 
o f
 credit life and credit disability insurance coverage to their direct 
b
°rrowers. The insurance sales activities of General include the 
s
ale of casualty insurance on collateral securing credit extended by 
those subsidiaries. Such activities have been determined by the Board 
t o
 be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)). General operates 
D
 offices, all of which are located in the State of Pennsylvania. As 
o f
 September 30, 1972, General held, through its subsidiaries, total 
°
u
tstandings of $26.2 million. 

2-
1032 
The proposed acquisition would have no adverse effect on 
existing competition since Applicant's subsidiaries that are engaged 
in the same lines of commerce as General's subsidiaries neither serve 
nor maintain offices in any geographic market served by subsidiaries 
°f General, Applicant would not appear to be a likely de novo entrant 
into General's markets. Further, in view of the number of competitors 
in those markets and the relatively low entry barriers into those 
markets, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisi-
tion would produce no adverse effect upon future competition in those 
m
atkets* 
Further, it does not appear that the acquisition of General 
b
y Applicant will have any adverse effects on credit presently made 
Mailable to independent finance companies by Applicant's subsidiary 
banks. 
Access to Applicant's financial resources would permit 
General to make mere funds available in the smaller geographic markets 
in which General operates. Access to certain services to be made 
Mailable to General by Applicant at lower costs than are presently 
Paid by General should increase General's competitive strength and 
u
ltimately benefit consumer borrowers in General's market areas through 
Enhanced competition. 
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors that the Board is required to consider under section 
^(
c
)(8) is favorable, and the Board hereby approves the application. 

-3 
. 1033 
This determination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 
225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require 
such modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act 
and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
Prevent evasions thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,"" effective March 29, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action; 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
B u c h
h e 1 1
' °
a A n e > 
B r i t n m e r
» 
Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governor 
ier. 

. i o ; 
u. 
B O A R D 
D F G O V E R N O R S 
- 
• 
item No. 6 
or THE 
• 
3/29/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
R 
A D D R E S S orriciAL 
C O R B E S P D N D E N C E 
.* 
T O 
T H E * B O A R D 
' 
. April 3, 1973 
White and Case 
Wall Street 
York, New York 
10005 
D e
a r Sirs: 
This refers to your letter of February 23, 1973, supplemented 
b
y a letter dated March l\ 1973, requesting an interpretation by the 
^°ard of Governors as to whether the acquisition by your client, Great 
A s t e r n Producers Cooperative ("Co-op") of all the stock of Great 
O s t e i n Sugar Company ("Sugar Company") from Great Western United Cor-
P°ration ("United") violates § 220.7(a) of Regulation T (12 CFR 220) or 
§
 224.2(a) of Regulation X (12 CFR 224). 
We have been furnished a copy 
Amendment No. 1 to a Form S-l Registration Statement No. 2-46 211, 
f
iled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 5, 19 73, 
v
h i c h relates to those aspects of the financing of the acquisition that 
"ill be the subject of a public offering and describes those aspects or 
the 
financing which are to be privately placed. 
The complex financing 
a r r
a n g e m e n t s for the acquisition explained in the Registration State-
^ n t involve, among other features, the issuance by Co-op of long-term 
C a
Pital notes, preferred stock, term notes to banks and sinking fund 
D
'°
r
tgage bohds. 
A question has been raised as to whether Regulation T may be 
involved because Co-op used the services of Pressprich Corporation 
("Prcssprich"), a registered broker/dealer, to assist in obtaining pri-
V a t
^ financing for the purchase of Sugar Company. 

dLOijJf) 
Vlhite and Case 
- 2 
-Section 220.7(a) of Regulation T provides: 
(
a
) 
Arranging for loans by others. 
A creditor 
may arrange for the extension or maintenance of credit 
to or for any customer of such creditor by any person 
upon the same terms and conditions as those upon which 
the creditor, under the provisions of this part, may 
himself extend or maintain such credit to such customer, 
but only upon such terms and conditions, except that 
this limitation shall not apply with respect to the 
arranging by a creditor for a bank subject to Part 221 
of this Chapter (Regulation U) to extend or maintain 
credit on margin securities or exempted securities. 
A broker/dealer is not permitted under the provisions of Regulation T 
to extend any credit to purchase or carry any securities except on col-
lateral consisting of "margin stock" or exempted securities in the 
amounts fixed by the current Supplement to the regulation. 
No colla-
teral consisting of margin stock or exempted securities will be pledged 
in connection with the transactions described herein. 
Section 224.2(a) of Regulation X provides: 
(a) Credit" obt ained from within the United States. 
A borrower shall not obtain any purpose credit from 
within the United States unless he does so in compliance 
with the following conditions. 
•k 
-k 
-k 
-k 
-k 
(2) 
Credit obtained from a broker/dealer shall conform 
to the provisions of Part 220 (Regulation T), which is 
hereby incorporated in this part (Regulation X). 
When 
the term "broker/cealer" is used in this part (Regula-
tion X), it means a person who is a broker or dealer, 
including every member of a national securities exchange, 
and includes a foreign branch or subsidiary of a bro-
ker/dealer. " 
The common stock of Sugar Company which will be acquired in 
the transaction, although once listed on the New York Stock Exchange, 
is not registered on any Exchange, has not been publicly traded since 
19C>8, and is owned entirely by a single entity, United. 
Such stock 

103* 
White and Case 
- 3 -
will be sold to a single entity, Co-op, and will be. pledged, in addition 
to all the lands', interest in lands, plants and plant properties of 
Sugar Company, as security for the $60,000,000 in First Mortgage Sinking 
Fund Bonds Due 1992 which arc to be sold to a group of institution/!! 
investors. 
Agreements to be signed in connection with these long-u>nr, 
debt instruments contain provision which should immobilize the e x i M i n a 
common stock for the life of the mortgage bonds and prevent the is'.uancc 
of any new common stock except to the Co-op. 
If issued, such stock 
would be required to be pledged forthwith as additional security for 
the bonds. 
Compliance with these terms may not be waived except by 
written consent of all the bond-holders. 
Pressprich became involved in the transactions described above 
when it became apparent that governmental financing for the acquisition 
.of Sugar Company by Co-op would not be available. 
Although a registered 
broker/dealer, Pressprich conducts no brokerage business in the ordinary 
sense, limiting its business to advisory, private placement and finding 
services for fee. Neither Pressprich nor any of its affiliates presently 
has or has had in the past any relationship with Co-op other than the 
involvement in making the above arrangements for financing. 
In vicw of the. facts described above, the Board of Governors 
concludes that it would not be necessary or appropriate, in order to 
effectuate the purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to re-
gard § 220.7(a) of Regulation T or § 224.2(a) of Regulation X as appli-
cable to the aforementioned transactions. 
It should be understood that 
the Board's conclusion is limited to the specific facts presented to 
J
t and that any deviation from those facts may compel a different con-
clusion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

•Ov 
• • r / IW 
hy v/'i. 
-t o 
J X M / 
B O A R D DP" G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. P.0551 
Item No. 7 
3/29/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 4, 1973 
Bankers International Corporation 
16 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 15, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIC") to purchase 
and hold all of the shares of BTHK, Limited ("BTHK"), Hong Kong, at a 
cost of approximately $2,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of BTHK by BIC is granted subject to the following con-
d itions: 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or Indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BTHK if BTHK at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if BTHK establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in Hong Kong or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to BIC; 
(?) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, BIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BTHK as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions'or dispositions by BTHK 
- . be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BTHK were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; 
and 
(4) That all assets and liabilities of BTHK shall be fully 
reflected in consolidated financial statements of its 
parent institutions filed with federal bank regulatory 
author i ties. 

Bankers International Corporation 
- 2 -
1038 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
f- suspends, until further notice, the restrictions set forth in 
•Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation K so far as they relate 
to the activities of BTHK. 
You have requested consent for BTHK to engage in the busi-
ness of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board has deter-
mined that such activities are usual in the business of banking in 
Hong Kong, The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned upon 
your Corporation's obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the 
continued holding of shares of BTHK should BTHK acquire stock of 
individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 25 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of any company, except in the case of 
underwriting operations covered by firm commitments from subundervriters 
or other purchasers. With respect to trading in securities in which 
Corporations are prohibited from investing by the provisions of the 
eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's 
consent is further conditioned on the fact that BTHK will acquire such 
shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size and turnover of 
inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, and dispose of such 
shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they ar- to 
be reported as a separate class, together with the date of acquisition 
on any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested bv the 
Board. 
You have requested consent for BTHK to engage in the business 
oL providing consulting services outside the United States. The Board's 
consent is granted subject to the condition that such services relating 
to the U.S. market will be confined to the initial entry of foreign 
companies into that market. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of BTHK. 
The Board also grants consent for BTHK to issue and have 
outstanding at any one time debt obligations with original maturities 
in excess of one year in an amount not to exceed HK$60 000 000 
(about $12,000,000). 
' 
' 
\ 

103.9 
Bankers International Corporation 
-3~ 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to Bankers Trust Company and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

, 1040 
Item No. 8 
3/29/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of Antoine National Bank, Houston, Texas, a proposed new bank 
("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a
nd ncne has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in the Houston banking 
^ r k e t , presently controls seven banks in that market and 20 per cent of 
11 
total market deposits. 
Applicant is the second largest multi-bank 
company in Texas. 
Bank is a proposed new bank, to be located in a newly developed 
a n
d rapidly growing area of northwest Houston. The nearest bank is 3.8 
^iles from the proposed bank's site (although preliminary approval for a 
barter has recently been granted to another new bank, also affiliated 
V All banking data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect holding company 
-quisitions and formations approved through January 25, 1973. 

1041 
-2-
w
ith a large bank holding company, which will be located 3/4 mile from Bank's 
location). Applicant's closest subsidiary bank is located approximately 10 
miles south of Bank's proposed site. Because Bank is a proposed new bank, 
consummation of this proposal will have no adverse effect on existing or 
Potential competition. 
In fact, de novo entry by Applicant into this area 
w
ill create an additional banking alternative and should stimulate com-
petition among those financial institutions already located in Bank's ser-
v
ice area. Competitive considerations are, therefore, consistent with 
a
Pproval of this application. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant 
a n
d its subsidiary banks are considered to be generally satisfactory, and 
future prospects appear favorable. Bank, as a proposed new bank, has no 
derating history, but future prospects for the new bank, under Applicant's 
leadership, appear favorable. Banking factors are consistent with approval 
o f
 the application. Convenience and needs factors favor approval since 
c
°nsummation of the proposal will shorten the distance that residents of 
bank's service area must travel for banking facilities. It is the Board's 
^
u
dgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest 
a n d
 that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
Reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
thi 
i s
 Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) Antoine 
a
tional Bank, Houston, Texas, shall be opened for business not later 

-3-
- 1042 
than six months after the effective date of this Order. Each of the 
Periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
It 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective March 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
aane, Brimmer and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Bucher. 

1043 
Item No. 9 
3/29/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE FORT WORTH NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Fort Worth National Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
X 8
42(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of Exchange Bank & Trust 
Company, Dallas, Texas. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
&
 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
n
°ne has been timely received. The Board has considered the application in 
l3
-ght of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls five banks~^ with aggregate deposits of about 
^673 million, representing 2.2 per cent of the total deposits of commercial 
k^nks in the State. Applicant ranks as the sixth largest bank holding 
c
ompany and seventh largest banking.organization in Texas and the largest in 
Fort Worth banking market, where it controls approximately 29.7 per cent 
of- 
* 
the total commercial bank deposits in that market. 
(All banking data are 
of June 30, 1972, and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisi-
t i o
n s approved by the Board through February 28, 1973.) 
In addition, 
Applicant controls between 24.4 per cent and 24.9 per cent of the voting 
s
W e s of two other banks located in the Fort Worth market, holding aggregate 
"J 
Bank of Fort Worth, Riverside State Bank and Tarrant State Bank, all located 
Fort Worth, are deemed subsidiaries for purposes of the Bank Holding Com-
„ 
Act by virtue of Applicant's fiduciary holdings in said banks and 
2
(a)(5)(A) of the Act. 

-2-
1044 
deposits 6f $69.5 million. Applicant also owns 5 per cent of the shares of 
First National Bank, Paducah, Texas. Upon consummation of the acquisition 
°f Bank ($105.7 million in deposits), Applicant's share of commercial bank 
deposits in the State would increase by only 0.4 percentage points and it 
v
ould become the.sixth largest banking organization in theuState. Con-
summation of the proposal herein would constitute Applicant's initial entry 
into the Dallas banking market. 
Bank is located about seven miles northwest of downtown Dallas, 
a
nd as the sixth largest among 120 banking organizations serving the Dallas 
hanking market, controls about 1.7 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
in that market. Applicant, headquartered in the adjacent Fort Worth market, 
^as its closest subsidiary located approximately 37 miles southwest of Bank. 
appears that no meaningful competition exists between any of Applicant's 
subsidiary banks and Bank. 
In view of Applicant's intention to expand into major markets 
a c
toss the State, the existing ratio of persons per banking office and bank 
deposits per capita in the Dallas market, it would appear that conditions 
a r
e attractive for entry de novo by Applicant or through acquisition of a 
^
a
nk smaller than Bank. However, acquisition of Bank by Applicant should have 
a
 beneficial effect on competition among commercial banks in the Dallas area 
a s
 the proposed acquisition will permit Bank to draw needed financial, 
t e c
hnical and management resource strength from Applicant. As a consequence, 
ari
k's competitive posture in the Dallas market should be significantly 
"^Proved. The area's five largest banking organizations control approximately 
Per cent of total area deposits and the introduction of an external 

. _1045 
-3-
competitive force into this concentrated market is likely to increase the 
vigor of present competition. 
There are few modest-sized banks in the Dallas market which are 
not already involved in bank holding company ownership. Approval of this 
application would eliminate Bank as a possible lead bank in a regional 
holding company. However, in view of Bank's limited financial and managerial 
resources, its potential as a lead bank is uncertain. Moreover, on the facts 
of 
record, including the distances involved and the Texas law prohibiting 
branch banking, consummation of the proposal herein is unlikely to foreclose 
a
ny significant potential competition between Bank and any of Applicant's 
subsidiary or satellite banks. The Board concludes, on the basis of the 
Record before it, that consummation of the proposed transaction will not 
have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant area and may, in fact, 
serve to stimulate competition in the Dallas banking market. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant and its subsidiaries appear satisfactory. The financial condition 
and managerial resources of Bank have deteriorated in recent years; however, 
as a subsidiary of Applicant, Bank's prospects for future growth and service 
a s
 a meaningful competitor in the Dallas area would be significantly improved. 
The expected strengthening of Bank's financial position and management lend 
W e
ight to approval of the application. 
Although the banking needs of the residents of the Dallas area 
a r e
 adequately served by existing institutions, provision of Applicant's 
b r
oad range of services through Bank should provide a more convenient source 
f
°
r
 these sophisticated services to the increasing number of customers 

1 0 1 6 
-4-
locating in Bank's immediate service area. Addition of these services 
should contribute positively to the convenience and needs of the communities 
served by Bank. These considerations are consistent with approval of this 
application. 
Applicant owns directly three principal nonbanking subsidiaries 
acquired between June 30, 1968, and December 31, 1970. One of these, Foster 
Financial Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, engages in the mortgage banking 
business and is the second largest mortgage firm in Fort Worth in terms of 
2/ 
its mortgage servicing portfolio. 
It also operates one office in Dallas. 
Bank, with a mortgage portfolio of around $6 million, is not a significant 
competitor in the Dallas mortgage market, nor is Foster Financial. 
Thus, 
the two organizations would appear to have a negligible effect on competition 
f
or mortgage loans in the Dallas SMSA. Accordingly, it is the Board's 
conclusion that approval would not adversely affect mortgage banking com-
petition in the Dallas area. Foster Financial Corporation and its sub-
sidiary, Westcliff Company, are engaged in land development, which is not 
Permitted activity under § 225.4(a) of Regulation Y . 
(See 1972 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 429). In approving this application, the Board has taken 
into consideration Applicant's commitment to divest such activity within 
a
 two-year period. 
Applicant's other principal nonbanking interests include a savings and 
i°an association which it is required to divest under an order of the United 
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit; and an insurance brokerage 
company which is also subject to ten year "grandfather" privileges at this 
time. 

1016 
-4-
Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities remain subject to 
Board review, and the Board retains the authority to require Applicant to 
®odlfy or terminate its nonbanking activities or holdings if the Board at 
any time determines that the combination of Applicant's banking and non-
banking activities is likely to have adverse effects on the public interests. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
^ank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, " effective March 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
g' Voting for this action: 
Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
aane, Brimmer and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
°
v
ernor Bucher. 

. _ 1048 
Item No. 10 
3/29/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MERCHANTS NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Circle Leasing Corp. 
Merchants National Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
and 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the 
voting shares of the successor by merger to Circle Leasing Corp., 
Indianapolis, Indiana ("Company") and indirectly to acquire Company's 
subsidiaries, Circle Acceptance Corp. and Circle Transportation Corp., 
both of Indianapolis, Indiana, and Circle Leasing of Kentucky Corporation, 
Louisville, Kentucky. The company into which Company is to be merged 
has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition 
of the voting shares of Company. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
of shares of the successor organization is treated as the proposed 
acquisition of shares of Company. The proposed subsidiaries engage 
primarily in full pay-out leasing. Such activities have been determined 
by the Board to be closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 
225.4(a)(6)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public interest 
factors, has been duly published (38 Federal Register 3629). The time 
for filing comments and views has expired, and none has been timely 
received. 

1049 
-2-
Applicant controls one bank, Merchants National Bank & 
Trust Company, Indianapolis, Indiana ("Bank"), with deposits of 
$534 million, representing 4.3 per cent of aggregate deposits of 
commercial banks in Indiana. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 
1972.) 
Bank is the third largest of five competing banks in the City 
of Indianapolis. 
Company was organized in 1957 and is primarily engaged in 
leasing capital goods and equipment to business and industry through 
its Indianapolis office and, on a smaller scale, through its Louisville, 
Kentucky, office. Company operates two Indianapolis subsidiaries, 
Circle Acceptance Corp. and Circle Transportation Corp., which specialize 
in transactions involving instalment financing, and in full pay-out 
leasing of vehicles, respectively. The third subsidiary, Circle 
Leasing of Kentucky Corporation, Louisville, Kentucky, carries on 
Company's leasing operations in Kentucky. Leases are made on a full 
pay-out basis whereby the cost of equipment, the cost of financing, 
and a reasonable profit are realized during the original terms of the 
leases. Company is the second largest leasing organization in the 
Indianapolis area, controlling 19 per cent of total lease receivables. 
Numerous national leasing companies are represented in the market 
through branch offices, and it appears to be a competitive market. 
Applicant does not engage in leasing directly, and Bank has 
not engaged in leasing for several years and has only one lease out-
standing. There is no indication in the record, absent this proposal, 

-3-
1050 
that Applicant would be likely to engage de novo in leasing operations 
in the relevant areas. The facts of record indicate that no substantial 
amount of existing or potential competition would be eliminated by 
consummation of this proposal, and the Board finds that the competitive 
issues are consistent with approval of the application. 
It appears that the proposed affiliation would not result 
in any undue concentration of resources, conflicts of interests, 
unsound banking practices, or any other adverse effects on the public 
interest. However, Applicant's acquisition of company would serve the 
public by increasing the line of services available to Bank's customers 
and by assisting Company in obtaining funds at a lower cost. In 
addition, efficiencies of operations are expected to result from the 
proposed affiliation. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
determination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 

1 0 * 1 
-4-
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective March 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan c 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governor Bucher. 
