MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 25, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Banks of 
Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis. 

18* >4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, May 25, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Discount rate. On May 24, 1973, the boards of directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago and St. Louis had voted to 
establish, subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, 
rates of 6-1/4 and 6-1/2 per cent, respectively, on discounts for and 
advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve 
Act. The current rate at all the Reserve Banks was 6 per cent. The 
directors had also acted to establish correspondingly higher subsidiary 
rates on advances under other sections of the Act. 
The Board members agreed that it would not be desirable to 
raise the discount rate at this time. They noted that a number of 
Monetary policy actions of a tightening nature had been taken in recent 
W e eks , including an increase in the discount rate from 5-3/4 to 6 per cent 
announced on May 10, and they felt more time was needed to weigh the impact 

, „ JL & ( j ! } 
5/25/73 
-2-
of those actions before a further monetary policy move was made. 
Chairman Burns also indicated that the Administration was actively 
considering various new measures to help contain inflation, and he 
felt the uncertain outcome of the current deliberations within the 
Administration was another reason for the System to delay any further 
move in a restrictive direction. Other Board members expressed 
agreement with this view. 
After further consideration the Board unanimously voted to 
.disapprove the pending discount rate increases, with the understanding 
that a letter outlining the reasons for the Board's decision would be 
sent to the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago and St. Louis. It was 
also understood that the substance of the letter, without identification 
of the Banks involved, would be communicated to the Presidents of the 
other Federal Reserve Banks. 
The Secretary's Office was authorized to advise any other Reserve 
Bank that might take action today to raise the discount rate that the 
Board had disapproved a higher rate. Following the meeting, a telegram 
was received from the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis indicating 
that the directors of that Bank had voted to raise the discount rate to 
6-1/4 per cent. In keeping with the Board's delegation, the Minneapolis 
fiank was advised of the Board's disapproval of the proposed increase. 
Copies of the letters sent to the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis are attached under Item No. 1. A copy 

wm 
5/25/73 
-3-
of the memorandum sent to the Presidents of the other Federal Reserve 
Banks is attached as Item No. 2 . 
Other discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
and Dallas on May 24, 1973, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Staff who joined the meeting included the following: 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff, including officers and staff 
of the research divisions. 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
CoPies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
Placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
Mr. Cardon reported on legislative developments, after which 
those who had been present only for the economic review withdrew. 

I _ 18G7 
5/25/73 
-4-
Consent calendar. Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum of May 23, 1973, the 
Board unanimously approved expansion of the San Francisco, Los Angeles, 
Portland, Salt Lake City, and Seattle overnight clearing areas provided 
that efforts continue to be made to reduce the number of two-day end 
points and resulting float. This action included authorization for an 
additional 19 positions in the San Francisco 1973 employment ceiling 
and an increase in recurring expenses for the first year of operations. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Virginia 
Bankshares Corporation, Falls Church, Virginia, to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to The First National Bank in Onancock, Onancock, 
Virginia, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
^ copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board authorized issuance of a revised order reflecting its 
approval, on May 10, 1973, of the application of Crocker National Corpo-
ration, San Francisco, California, to acquire shares of Schumacher Mortgage 
Company, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee. The Board's order of May 10 was revised 
to clarify the reference to insurance activities engaged in by Schumacher 
Mortgage Company and the period for termination of Schumacher's impermis-
sible nonbanking activities. A copy of the revised order, as issued, is 
attached as Item No. 5. 

±868 
5/25/73 
-5-
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Melnicoff, 
and Partee then withdrew and Mr. Wood of the Division of Personnel 
Administration entered the room. 
Officer appointments. At yesterday's meeting the Board deferred 
action on the proposed appointment of Robert Lawrence as Associate Adviser, 
Division of Research and Statistics, in connection with the proposed 
^organization of the Banking Markets Section. 
After discussion at today's meeting, the Board endorsed the 
Proposed reorganization of the Banking Markets Section and approved the 
appointment of Mr. Lawrence as Associate Adviser at an annual salary of 
v34 ,000. It was understood that a mutually convenient effective date 
would be selected for this appointment and for the appointments of 
Theodore E. Allison as Assistant Secretary, Office of the Secretary, and 
William Wiles as Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
which had been approved by the Board yesterday. 
(Note: The appointments 
W e r e subsequently made effective June 10, 1973.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

v . 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
1 8 G 9 
Item No. 1 
5/25/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F r t C t A l . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 25, 1973 
Mr. Robert P. Mayo, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 60690 
Dear Mr. Mayo: 
The Board of Governors voted today to disapprove 
the increase in your Bank's discount rate from 6 to 6-1/4 
per cent which your board of directors acted to establish at 
their meeting on May 24. The Board concluded that an 
increase in the rate would not be timely following so shortly 
on the recent advance to 6 per cent in the discount rate. The 
Board also took note of other monetary policy actions that 
have been taken in recent weeks and decided it would be 
desirable to allow more time to weigh their impact before 
making another possible change in the discount rate. 
May I add that the Board has asked me to convey 
their appreciation for having had the benefit of the judgment 
of your directors. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Normand Bernard 
Normand Bernard 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

v 1870 
B D A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 25, 1973 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 63166 
fear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors voted today to disapprove 
the increase in your Bank's discount rate from 6 to 6-1/2 
Per cent which your board of directors acted to establish at 
their meeting on May 24. The Board concluded that an 
increase in the rate would not be timely following so shortly 
°n the recent advance to 6 per cent in the discount rate. The 
Board also took note of other monetary policy actions that 
nave been taken in recent, weeks and decided it would be 
desirable to allow more time to weigh their impact before 
Waking another possible change in the discount: rate. 
May I add that the Board has asked me to convey 
their appreciation for having had the benefit of the judgment 
your directors. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Normand Bernard 
Normand Bernard 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
y 1871 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B D A R D 
May 25, 1973 
Mr. Bruce K. MacLaury, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55480 
Dear Mr. MacLaury: 
The Board of Governors voted today to disapprove 
the increase in your Bank's discount rate from 6 to 6-1/4 
per cent which your board of directors acted to establish at 
their meeting today. The Board concluded that an increase 
in the rate would not be timely following so shortly on the 
recent advance to 6 per cent in the discount rate. The 
Board also took note of other monetary policy actions that 
have been taken in recent weeks and decided it would be 
desirable to allow more time to weigh their impact before 
making another possible change in the discount rate. 
May I add that the Board has asked me to convey 
their appreciation for having had the benefit of the judgment 
of your directors. 
Sincerely yours 
(signed) Normand Bernard 
v 
Normand Bernard 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

.. 1872 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/25/73 
% c e Co 
) i T e s ? 3 o n G e n c e 
Date 
May 25. 1973 
—_____ » Normand Bernard 
eserve Bank Preside 
Subject; 
Board Discount Rate 
Action on May 25, 1973 
r 
/ 
f 
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL 
In keeping with the practice established last autumn, 
there follows the substance of a letter sent today to three 
Federal Reserve Banks whose directors had voted to establish 
discount rates of 6 - 1 / 4 or 6 - 1 / 2 per cent. 
The Board concluded that an increase in 
the rate would not be timely following so shortly^ 
on the recent advance to 6 per cent in the discount 
rate. 
The Board also took note of other monetary 
policy actions that have been taken in recent weeks 
and decided it would be desirable to allow more time 
to weigh their impact before making another possible 
change in the discount rate. 

1 8 7 3 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N q > 
3 
nr the 
5/25/73* 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
f t 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
, 
A D D R E S S 
Q FFI C I A L 
D D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
,* 
T D 
T H E 
E J O A R D 
May 25, 1973 
Mr. John J. Balles, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Mr. Balles: 
The Board of Governors has approved the proposed 
expansion of the San Francisco, Los Angeles, Portland, 
Salt Lake City, and Seattle overnight, clearing areas pro-
vided that efforts continue to further reduce the number of 
two-day end points and associated float. The Board understands 
that the expansion is being phased in to facilitate the 
improvement of check processing operations at the Los Angeles 
and San Francisco offices. 
The Board has also approved an increase of 19 
positions in the 1973 San Francisco employment ceiling and 
an increase of approximately $978,950 in annual recurring 
expenses for the first full year of operations. Costs to 
be incurred in connection with these expansions during the 
first half of 1973 were approved by the Board with the 
San Francisco District: budget for that period. Anticipated 
expansion costs for the remainder of the year should be in-
cluded in the second half budget. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L0 Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

1874 
Item No. 4 
5/25/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST VIRGINIA BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Falls Church, Virginia, 
b a n k h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
ha* aPplied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
^(a)(3)) t o a cq u£ r e 100 p e r c e n t 0f the voting shares (less directors' 
qnai i , 
ying shares) of the successor by merger to The First National Bank 
n Hancock, Onancock, Virginia (''Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to 
^^ged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acqui-
sition 0f 
the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
of sli 
r e s 
the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed 
q u i siti o n of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons f n 
, . 
submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) o f .. 
the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
e has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion -j _ 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
Applicant, the sixth largest banking organization in Virginia, 
C°ntrols 
. , 
banks with aggregate deposits of $643 million, representing 
6,6 Per p cent of the total commercial bank deposits in Virginia. 
(All 
b;inkin 
A 
e aata are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding company 
*Cquisition approved through March 31, 1973.) Acquisition of Bank (deposits 
°f *U.2 m 1 l l J 
n3-llion) would not result in a significant increase in the con-
C ^ t r a t i u of banking resources in Virginia. 

- 2 -
1875 
Bank controls 17.3 per cent of the total deposits in the 
^comack County market, making it the third largest of six banks located 
herein. Applicant's banking subsidiary nearest to Bank is 60 miles away 
a C r o s s Chesapeake Bay and accessible conveniently by car only by means of 
tVi 
e Chesapeake Bay Bridge Tunnel. In view of, among other things, the 
distance involved and expense of the Tunnel and the impossibility under 
^rginia law for any of Applicant's present banking subsidiaries to branch 
into Accomack County, competition between Bank and any banking 
Subsidiary of Applicant does not exist at present and is unlikely to 
dev£lop i n t h e f u t u r e > 
Accomack County does not appear to be an attractive 
ar°a for de novo entry because the population of the county has been gradually 
fining f o r the past 20 years, and the economic growth potential of the 
a is limited at present. The Board concludes that the acquisition would 
have « 
significant adverse effects on the competitive situation or the con-
ntration of banking resources in the area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Appi j 
k iCant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are generally satisfactory and 
•'-stent with approval, especially in light of Applicant's commitment to 
m p r° V e the capital position of several of its subsidiary banks and the 
Action of capital this acquisition will bring to Bank. The primary 
bar^ 
n8 needs of the area are adequately served by the existing banks; 
but 
s6t 
B a n k> through affiliation with Applicant, intends to furnish trust 
H c e s Presently demanded by its customers and new banking services as 
e G arises. Considerations relating to convenience and needs of the 

-3-
Co®munity are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
Mi 
e Proposed transaction is in the public interest and that the applica-
t i o n should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the r 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
e r o r (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order. 
U l U e s s Such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
eral Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors^ effective May 25, 1973. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
187G 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
I SEAL] 
this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, 
Dan6 
a n d Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and 

1877 
REVISED, 
Item No. 5 
5/25/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CRGCKER NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Schumacher Mortgage Company, Inc. 
Crocker National Corporation, San Francisco, California, a 
tank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire the 
voting shares of Schumacher Mortgage Company, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee 
("Schumacher"), a company that engages primarily in the following activities. 
1. Making or acquiring real estate loans for its own 
account and for the account of others. 
2. Servicing real estate loans for its own account or 
f°r the account of others and 
3. Acting as an insurance agent or broker selling • 
casualty, group credit life and group credit disability insurance, 
Eclated to the extension of credit by Schumacher and Schumacher's 
servicing activities. Such activities have been determined by 
Board to be closely related to. the business of banking 
to CFR 225.4(a)(1), (3) and (9). 
• 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
be*n duly published (37 Federal Register 28220). The time for filing 
c°mments and views has expired, and the Board has considered all comments 
received in the light of the public interest factors set forth in section 
4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)). 

- 2 -
1878 
Applicant is a one-bank holding company by virtue of its 
ownership of Crocker National Bank ("Bank"), San Francisco, the 
tVelfth largest bank in the country and the fourth largest in California. 
Batlk holds deposits of $4.9 billion representing 8.4 per cent of the 
tot{*l deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
(All banking data are 
as 
June 30, 1972.) Bank operates 288 branches located throughout the 
S t a t e 
California. Neither Applicant nor any of its subsidiaries is 
etlSaged in the mortgage banking business. Bank does, however, engage in 
0tt8age lending for its own account. 
Schumacher (assets of $21 million) engages primarily in originating 
r acquiring real estate loans for its own account and for the account of 
t h e r s 
servicing real estate loans for its own account and for the 
acco 
Chat 
unt of others. Schumacher operates five offices located in Memphis, 
tanooga, Knoxville, and Kingsport, Tennessee, and operates one office in 
aap 
w 
nnsapolis> Minnesota. Schumacher's mortgage loan servicing portfolio totals 
million and is derived principally from its mortgage lending acitivities 
In i>Gn 
lessee. Almost half of Schumacher's revenues are received from the 
y County (Memphis), Tennessee, area where Schumacher ranks seventh 
^ term 
J 
cins of mortgage loans above $6,000, representing approximately 5 per 
Cent Of 
r mortgage loans made in that market. Schumacher's share of mortgage 
ctivities in the other Tennessee markets in which it operates con-
•titttte 
e s no more than 3 per cent of the outstanding mortgage loans in those 
Schumacher's office in Minneapolis, Minnesota, orginated $6.7 
^ i o n < 
l n real estate loans in 1971 which represents less than .5 per 
of ine total of real estate loans made in that area. 

/ 
/ 
/ 
-3-
1879 
Through Bank, Applicant originates a substantial amount of 
i 
m°rtgage loans throughout California for its own^account. Its present 
real estate loan portfolio exceeds $1,3 billion. 
With the exception 
o f approximately $4 million of outstanding loans in the Minneapolis area, 
Either Applicant nor any of its subsidiaries is engaged in any activities 
i n any of the markets served by Schumacher and, therefore, no c o m p e t i t i o n 
exists that would be eliminated as a result of c o n s u m m a t i o n of the proposed 
acquisition. Due to the distances between Applicant and Schumacher and 
th* concentration of Schumacher's activities in Tennessee, it appears 
^likely that either Applicant or Schumacher would enter each other's 
Market in the absence of the proposed transaction. It appears unlikely, 
therefore, that c o n s u m m a t i o n of the proposal herein would eliminate any 
significant potential c o m p e t i t i o n between Applicant and Schumacher. The 
B o a * d concludes that c o n s u m m a t i o n of the proposed a c q u i s i t i o n would have 
n o Adverse effects on mortgage lending in any of the markets served by 
either A p p l i c a n t or Schumacher. 
In addition to its mortgage lending activities, S c h u m a c h e r and two 
°f ^ s subsidiary companies act as insurance brokers and agents selling 
re(Ht H f e > casualty and group credit disability insurance, related 
to 
tens ions of credit by Schunacher and Schumacher's servicing 
activitics. ' Schumacher's subsidiaries act also as agents with 
mil J? t h e nineTo^Tty San Francisco Bay area, Applicant's bank made $262 
sent 
U i n r e a l estate loans during the first nine months of 1972, repre-
th : A n 8 5 - 5 Per cent of the total real estate loans made in this area during 
n a t Period. 

1880 
-4-
respect to various types of insurance purchased fo ; Schumacher and offer 
i? 
_ 
convenience" insurance which, it appears, would account for less than 5 
p e r cent of Applicant's gross premium income {see 
225.4(a) (9) (ii) (c) of 
^ e Board's Regulation Y) and it appears also that no office of Schumacher 
is engaged to a significant extent in offering "convenience" insurance to 
the public. The insurance activities of Schumacher and its subsidiary com-
panies, as presently conducted and as proposed to be conducted upon acquisi-
tion, appear to be of the kinds permitted by Regulation Y. 
Under Tennessee law, however, certain types of insurance activities 
a r e prohibited to be engaged in by brokers and agents who are "owned or 
Strolled, directly or indirectly, by a bank holding company". Such 
agents are prohibited from negotiating "any policy of insurance covering 
r&al or personal property which is the subject matter of, or security for, 
a loan or extension of credit made by the holding company or any bank which 
ls owned or controlled directly or indirectly, by such bank holding company." 
sPecifically exempted are "sales of credit life, credit accident and health 
durance, and comprehensive physical damage insurance on motor vehicles, 
Mobile homes, and recreational vehicles." (Sections 55-721 to 56-724 of the 
l e a s e e Code). 
With respect to the insurance activities that would be engaged in 
A p p l i c a n t in Tennessee after its acquisition o f Schumacher, the National 
Association of Insurance Agents and the Insurers of Tennessee, in commenting 
° n the proposed acquisition, contend that the Tennessee statute w o u l d prohihi 
Schumacher, as a s u b s i d i a r y ot Applicant-, f t o m ©ne«E^* 
c e r t a i n t y o e s of 

1881 
-5-
in 
surance activities in Tennessee. Applicant has responded to these con-
ations by stating its belief that the insurance activities as are now 
^ing engaged in by Schumacher are permissible under Tennessee law, and 
w°uld continue to be permissible after the proposed acquisition, in view of 
statutory exemption for credit life, credit accident and health insurance. 
^Plicant contends further that the State statute has no applicability to 
insurance activities of a ncnbank subsidiary of the holding company, such 
as Schumacher. 
The Tennessee statute specifically exempts the sale of credit 
lif insurance, credit accident and health insurance and certain types of 
mPrehe.nsive physical damage insurance, and Applicant has given assurances 
^at Schumacher itself is, and will continue to be, engaged in only those 
F r a n c e 
The 
activities that are specifically permitted by the Tennessee statute 
insurance agency subsidiaries of Schumacher, on the other hand, sell 
Surance with coverage broader than that sold by Schumacher directly. Cer-
tain of 
o t Schumacher's subsidiary insurance agency activities appear to relate 
to r 
ai or personal property and would appear to be prohibited by the 
bbee statute if Schumacher is acquired by Applicant. Applicant has 
*cated its intention to engage through Schumacher only in those insurance 
a c t i v l M 
Lies permitted by the Board and State law and to discontinue immediately 
any 
ctivities determined to be prohibited by State law. To this end, Appli-
C*nt ha 
a s pledged to undertake to obtain a determination as to the per-
^ U i t y 0f those insurance activities of Schumacher not specifically 
u crom the limitation on insurance activities contained in the Tennessee 
5tatute v. 
» by commencing an action for declaratory relief in the Tennessee 
Within 30 days after consummation of Applicant's acquisition of 

18 bZ 
^humacher. Because the statute in question has been law for less than 
°ne year and has not been interpreted either by the Commissioner of 
durance for Tennessee, or by State courts, the Board views Applicant's 
Ut*der taking 
to seek a determination in the Tennessee courts as to the 
effect of the statute, as the most effective means of defining those insurance 
C i t i e s permitted to be engaged in by Schumacher in Tennessee, upon 
by Applicant. Accordingly, the Board's action on Applicant s 
Pr°Posal herein is conditioned upon Applicant, after consummation of 
th 
* Proposed accuisition, not engaging in Tennessee in the sale of insurance 
0t^er than those kinds specifically exempted from the statutory prohibition. 
Itl addition, it is understood that it-is Applicant's intention, within 30 
after consummation of the proposed acquisition? to seek a determina-
tion i 
xn the Tennessee courts with respect to those insurance activities not 
pGcifically exempted from the Tennessee statute.—^ 
In addition to its mortgage banking and related insurance 
aof 
lvities, Schumacher acts as a real estate broker and agent in listing 
S eUing residential properties, provides management services for owners 
ertain income producing properties and is engaged also in real estate 
eloPment activities with respect to parcels of land in Tennessee. The 
B()Q>.J , 
a has determined in previous cases that real estate brokerage and 
act-» 
receipt of a determination by Tennessee authorities that insurance 
Voul^itie8 (other than those specifically exempted under the State statute) 
t0 t h
 
e Permissible to be engaged in by Applicant, Applicant may reapply 
e tioard for permission to engage those additional activities. 

1883 
development activities and property management activities are generally 
n°t so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to 
bp a proper incident thereto and, therefore, are not permitted to be engaged 
j 
n by a bank holding company. Applicant has stated that upon consummation of 
proposal herein, Applicant will cause Schumacher to discontinue all 
pr°perty management and real estate activities (except those real estate 
brokerage activities with respect to properties acquired by Schumacher as a 
tesult of defaulted loans extended by Schumacher) and the Board's action 
° n Applicant's proposed acquisition of Schumacher is conditioned upon the 
terQdnation by Schumacher of its impermissible nonbanking activities at the 
e a rHest date possible, but in no event later than one year from the effective 
d a t e of this Order ~ 
It is anticipated that consummation of the proposed acquistion 
enhance the ability of Schumacher to provide an increased quantity 
of 
0rtgage funds in those areas in which it presently operates and should 
lnctease the likelihood of Schumacher expanding the scope of its mortgage 
activities into new markets. As a subsidiary of Applicant, Schumacher 
1-11 b a v e available to it a continuing source of managerial and technical 
^Pertise to strengthen its. competitive role in its present and future 
^ k e t s . 
a ^ / 8 originally filed with the Board, Applicant's application contained 
°P°sal to engage in the business cf property management with respect 
t0
 
Vernment subsidized low and moderate income housing projects and 
management services with respect to properties which are 
APpliCt t 0 P e r m a n e n t loans being serviced by Schumacher. Subsequently, 
U t v°luntarily withdrew its request to engage in all property 
activities and Applicant has determined instead to discontinue 
B e r i n g all property management services, now provided by Schumacher. 

- 8 -
1884 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
n the record, including the conditions stated herein, the Board has 
determined that the balance of the public interest factors the Board 
required to consider under section 4(c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, 
thp application is hereby approved. This determination is subject to 
fcVl Tl 
6 Board's authority to require reports by, and make examinations of, 
hiding companies and their subsidiaries and to require such modifica-
ti 
n °r termination of the activities of a holding company or any 
r its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
the provisions and purposes of State law and the Bank Holding Company 
ct and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent 
eVasion thereof. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective Hay 10, 1973. 
•(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of thg^Board 
[SEAL] 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
Ucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
