MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 12, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, April 12, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr, Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
°f Wayne Bank, Wayne, Michigan, to issue capital notes. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chemical 
Bank and Trust Company, Midland, Michigan, to issue capital notes. A 
CoPy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston responding to a question raised by Hampshire Funding, Inc., 

,<t «r> S « 1 
4/12/73 
-2-
regarding an interpretation of Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and 
Dealers. A copy of the letter to the Reserve Bank is attached as 
Item No. 3. It was understood that the substance of the letter would 
be published in the Federal Register. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Virginia 
National Bankshares, Inc., Norfolk, Virginia, to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to Virginia Trust Company, Richmond, Virginia, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Security 
National Corporation, Beaumont, Texas, to acquire shares of First Secu-
rity Financial Systems, Houston, Texas, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Third National 
Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, to acquire shares of Mobilehome Guaranty 
Corporation, Miami, Florida, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflect-
ing this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Barnett Banks of Florida. In a memorandum of March 7, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of Barnett Banks of 
Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of First State 

M » ]i tf « J 
2.0* l o 
4/12/73 
-3-
Bank of Lakeland, Lakeland, Florida. Other documentation included, at 
Governor Robertson's instance, memoranda analyzing the premium involved 
in the proposed transaction. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Fidelity Corporation of Pennsylvania. 
In a memorandum of 
APril 4, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking 
Markets Section recommended approval of the application of Fidelity 
Corporation of Pennsylvania, Rosemont, Pennsylvania, to acquire shares 
°f Commercial Capital Corporation, New York, New York (a commercial 
finance company). 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation, in a memorandum of 
APril 2, 1973, noted that Fidelity Bank, Rosemont, Pennsylvania, which 
W£*s controlled by Fidelity Corporation of Pennsylvania, was one of 
several banks that engaged in the practice of issuing letters of credit 
to support the commercial paper borrowings of a real estate investment 
trust ("REIT") advised by a nonbank subsidiary of its parent holding 
company. Such letters of credit had at times been outstanding in amounts 
far in excess of what the bank could lend to a single borrower and had 
exceeded the amounts that the bank could lend to an affiliate (since 
the REIT was advised but not owned, it was not considered an affiliate). 

4/12/73 
-4-
The Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation was currently 
considering the possible adoption by the Federal bank supervisory 
authorities of a position that the use of standby letters of credit 
as guarantees for commercial paper was not within the powers of commer-
cial banks. The Division considered it inadvisable for the application 
of Fidelity Corporation to be approved without calling attention to the 
Pending question regarding letters of credit. Otherwise, the impression 
Wight be given that the practice was viewed as acceptable. Therefore, 
the Division recommended that a letter be sent, a draft of which was 
attached, informing the applicant of the Board's reservations and concern 
about the use of such letters of credit to support commercial paper 
borrowings. The Division also recommended that the Board authorize a 
study of bank-related REIT's, as proposed in an attached memorandum 
from the Legal Division, dated October 18, 1972. 
Discussion brought out that although the issuance of letters 
°f credit in the amounts that Fidelity Corporation had had outstanding 
suggested that the Corporation was willing to violate the statutory 
limitations on loans to one borrower in the event of full utilization 
°f such credit lines, in reality it expected to sell participations in 
such loans if takedowns made that necessary. 
There was majority agreement that since the Coordinating 
Committee had not yet reached a conclusion with respect to the use of 

_ 
1 2 1 
4/12/73 
-5-
standby letters of credit, the Board should not make that question an 
element in its decision regarding the application of Fidelity Corpora-
tion. In any event, the question involved broader issues and other 
bank holding companies besides Fidelity Corporation. However, it was 
agreed that Governor Mitchell should press for a prompt resolution of 
the matter by the Committee. 
Other comments stressed the need for additional information 
about the relationships between REIT's and banks or bank holding 
companies, especially in the light of the possibility of conflicts of 
interest. 
Attention focused on the probability that the conduct of the 
Proposed study of REIT's would become known in the financial community, 
with possible misinterpretation and influence on markets. Even the 
letter proposed to be sent to Fidelity Corporation might cause some 
apprehension. There was agreement upon changes in the letter to mini-
mize that possible effect, and it was understood that the Board's staff 
would have ready a statement to explain the Board's concern if inquiries 
were received. 
The Board approved the application of Fidelity Corporation of 
Pennsylvania to acquire shares of Commercial Capital Corporation, and 
Authorized issuance of an order to reflect that decision. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 8. Governor Robertson abstained from this action, 

121i 
4/12/73 
-6-
indicating that while he could not vote for approval, he could not 
dissent without citing the question of standby letters of credit. He 
considered the REIT to be in practical effect an affiliate of the bank 
holding company, and he thought that the letters of credit constituted 
loans exceeding the statutory limitation. At the least, the relation-
ship between the REIT and the bank should be determined, and it should 
be established that the bank was not in fact going to assume such a 
large liability. He also believed that the holding company should not 
be permitted to expand, even through the small operation here proposed, 
until its lead bank was in better condition. 
The letter to Fidelity Corporation regarding standby letters 
°f credit was approved in the form attached as Item No. 9. The proposed 
study of REIT's was unanimously approved in principle, with the under-
standing that the staff would promptly submit cost estimates for such 
a study. 
First City Bancorporation of Texas. 
In memoranda of March 27 
and April 2, 1973, respectively, the Banking Markets Section and the 
division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, 
Texas, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to Corpus Christi 
fiank and Trust, Corpus Christi, Texas. President Coldwell of the 
federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had also recommended approval, although 
several departments of the Bank had taken a negative position. The 

1 2 1 7 
4/12/73 
-7-
Division of Supervision and Regulation also recommended approval of 
related applications for merger of New Corpus Christi Bank and Trust 
and the present Corpus Christi Bank and Trust, and for the admission 
of New Corpus Christi Bank and Trust to membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 
The applications were approved, with the understanding that 
implementing documents would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Governor Robertson dissented from this action, citing the reasons that 
had been advanced by the operating departments of the Dallas Reserve 
Bank. 
All staff members except Mr. Holland withdrew from the room, 
and Mr. Wood of the Division of Personnel Administration entered. 
Mr. Holland recommended the appointment of Mr. John M. Denkler 
as As sistant Controller at an annual salary of $28,000 effective April 15, 
1973. After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the appointment. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

* 
1 2 1 8 * 
B D A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
of the: 
item No. 1 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
4/12/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Wayne Bank 
Wayne, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1 (f) (3) (i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $.500,000 in 
subordinated capital notes by Wayne Bank, Wayne, Michigan, in the 
form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. This 
approval is given en the condition that the capital notes cannot 
be called for redemption prior to maturity without the approval 
°f the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is granted with the under-
standing that the sale of the capital notes will be consummated 
v;'-thin six months from the date of this letter. It is further 
understood that any advertising with respect to the obligations 
Wlll, in addition to being in compliance with the provisions of 
section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of 
the obligation from a deposit, including by setting forth in bold 
face type than the obligation is subordinated to the claims of 
depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corpora t ion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D 
["JF G O V E R N O R S 
o r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
1 2 1 9 
Item No. 
4/12/73 
< 1 D R E 5 5 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R O 
April 12, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Chemical Bank and Trust Company 
Hidland, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(l) of Regulation 0 and 
section 204.1(f) (3) (i) of: Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $2,000,000 in 
subordinated capital notes by Chemical Bank and Trust Company, 
Midland, Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve 
of Chicago. This approval is given on the condition that the 
c«pital notes cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity 
Without the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is 
granted with the understanding that the sale of the capital notes 
Vl-H be consummated within six months from the date of this letter 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

1 2 2 0 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 3 
4/12/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D M D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 16, 1973 
Luther M. Hoyle, Jr. 
Vice President 
Regulations 
federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston 
30 Pearl Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
This refers to your letter dated March 5, 1973, in connection 
w i t h the question presented by Hampshire Funding, Inc. (Hampshire) 
concerning section 220.4(k) Special insurance premium funding account, 
Regulation T, "Credit by Brokers and Dealers". In its letter dated 
ebruary 27, 1.973 , a copy of which was enclosed with your l e t t e r , 
Hampshire asks whether independent broker/dealers who offer insurance 
Premium funding products may at the same time engage in the general 
securities business so long as they confine their operations to a 
Cash account in compliance with section 220.4(c) of the Regulation, 
whether such independent broker/dealers must confine their operations, 
even in the cash account, to the sale of shares in registered investment 
companies. 
The Board's September 5, 1972 clarifying amendment to 
s°ction 220.4(k) set forth that creditors who arrange credit for the 
acquisition of mutual fund shares and insurance are also permitted 
t o sell, mutual fund shares without insurance und<ir the provisions 
the special cash account. It should be understood, of course, 
^hat such account provides a relatively short credit period of up to 
business days even with so-called cash transactions. This amendment 
V a s i n accordance with the Board's understanding in 1969, when the 
insurance premium funding provisions were adopted in section 220.4(k), 
that firms engaged in a general securities business would not also 
e engaged in the sale and arranging of credit in connection with 
S U ch insurance premium funding programs. 

r>« M 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr. 
- 2 -
The 1972 amendment eliminated from section 220.4(k) the 
requirement that, to be eligible for the provisions of the section 
a creditor had to be the issuer, or a subsidiary or affiliate of 
the issuer, of programs which combine the acquisition of both 
mutual fund shares and insurance. Thus the amendment permits an 
independent broker/dealer to sell such a program and to arrange for 
financing in that connection. In reaching such decision, the Board 
again relied upon the earlier understanding that independent 
broker/dealers who would sell such programs would not be engaged 
ln transacting a general securities business. 
Accordingly, the Board agrees with the view expressed 
by Hampshire in the third paragraph of its letter that under Regu-
lation T: 
" . . . a broker/dealer dealing in special 
insurance premium funding products can only 
extend credit in connection with such products 
or in connection with the sale of shares of 
registered investment companies under the cash 
account . . . [and] cannot engage in the general 
securities business or sell any securities other 
than shares . . . [in] registered investment 
companies through a cash account or any other 
manner involving the extension of credit." 
There is a way, of course, as you have indicated, that an 
independent broker/dealer might be able to sell other than shares 
o t registered investment companies without creating any conflict 
^ith the regulation. Such sales could be executed on a "funds on 
and" basis and in the case of payment by check, would have to 
delude the collection of such check. It is und.rstood from industry 
sources, however, that few if any independent broker/dealers engage 
solely in a "funds on hand" type of operation. 
You may wish to suggest that Hampshire furnish a list of 
independent broker/dealers who may be doing both a general securities 
usiness, including the sale of securities other than shares in 
registered investment companies in the special cash account on 
terms other then a "funds on hand" basis, and al:o arranging credit 
l n connection with the sale of insurance premium funding programs, 
so that we might call to the attention of the Securities and Exchange 
or.imi ssion such possible violations of the provisions of section 220.4 (k) 
since the Commi.ssion would have enforcement responsibility in this 
regard. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

FEDfeRAt kESfcfcVE SYSTEM 
Item No0 4 
4/12/73 
VIRGINIA NATIONAL BANKSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Virginia National Bankshares, Inc., Norfolk, Virginia, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPplied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
(a)(3)) t o acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger to Virginia Trust Company, Richmond, 
Virginia ("Bank '). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no 
si8nificance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting 
ot 
res of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the 
Accessor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of 
t h e shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P^sons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 
^(b) 0f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
fcv 
e Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
t he factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls two banks with aggregate deposits of approxi-
ately 
billion, representing 11 per cent of total commercial bank 
P°sits in Virginia, and is the second largest banking organization in 
ttle State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect 
0lding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
Febr 
ruary 28, 1973.) Consummation of the proposed acquisition would increase 
n l y minimally Applicant's share of Statewide deposits and would 
Hot r 
result in a significant increase in the concentration of banking re-
c c e s i n Virginia. 

14 
-4-
Bank (deposits of about $36 million) has its head office and 
single existing branch in the city of Richmond and ranks seventh in size 
am°ng fourteen banks in the relevant market (the Richmond Standard 
Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA")). The Richmond banking market is 
highly concentrated in view of the fact that three of the four largest 
banking organizations in the State have about 69 per cent of the total 
deposits in the market. Furthermore, the four largest banking organiza-
tions in the market have 82 per cent of the total deposits. Bank has 
but o 
Per cent of market deposits and seven of the remaining banks in the 
^tket have an even smaller share. Three of the latter are already 
filiated w ith bank holding companies. 
Applicant has two subsidiary banks, Virginia National Bank 
n° ) » and Jefferson National Bank ('Jefferson"). Jefferson is 
located i n Lynchburg, about 100 miles west of Richmond. VNB, whose head 
off ir 
C e i s located in Norfolk, has 112 offices in various parts of the 
tate. However, Bank does not directly compete with any of VNB's bank-
offices , the closest of which is 50 miles removed from Bank. Due 
to _ 
_ 
re-
8tri( 
ing 
the distances separating the banking offices and Virginia's 
Lctive branching laws, it appears unlikely that any significant 
futuv-c, 
competition would davelop between any of Applicant's present 
banking subsidiaries and Bank. 
A mortgage banking subsidiary of VNB, Virginia National 
rt8age Company, is headquartered in Richmond. According to data 
Wished by Applicant, the 18 largest mortgage firms in the Richmond 

-3-
a t e a recorded a total of 6,113 mortgages in 1972. Of these, Virginia 
Natiooal Mortgage Company originated 392 single-family residential mort-
§a8es, while Eank originated but 28. The Board concludes that only a minimal 
ap'Ount of existing competition for the origination of residential mortg-
age loans in the Richmond market would be eliminated as a result of 
c°nsummation of the proposal. 
Bank is primarily a trust institution and holds trust assets of 
aPproxiD.ately $120 million, of which only about $1 million originate in 
the 
e areas served by VNB and Jefferson. Moreover, VNB has only $1.2 
llion in trust assets which originate in the Richmond area. The com-
i n e d t r ust assets of VNB and Bank represent 6.3 per cent.of those held in 
Richmond market by the six largest'banking organizations servicing this 
market 1/ 
• 
The Board concludes that only a minimal amount of existing 
^Petition between the Trust Departments of VNB and Bank would be 
' ^nated as a result of consummation of the proposal. 
» 
2/ 
By Order of April 18, 1967,"" the Board denied the proposed 
C q U l 8 i t i°n by VNB of Central National Bank ("Central National"), the 
fOUvfcu 
tanked banking organization in the Richmond banking market and the 
^iuth-r 
ranked in the State, on the basis that it would eliminate potential 
Petition between VNB and Central National in the Richmond market. In 
^he Qrd 
a e r , the Board stated, "Based on a record of Virginia National's 
——— 
f C o m b i ned trust assets of VNB and Bank in the Richmond market 
by 
course, overstated to the extent that the trust business conducted 
1/ 
f i n i n g 
eight institutions in that market is omitted, 
^ e r a l Reserve Bulletin 763 (1967) . 

-3-
past history, particularly its growth pattern, it is reasonable to expect 
that, though the application herein be denied, that [sic] bank will gain 
increased access to the Richmond market either through the operation of 
offices resulting from merger with Richmond area banks, or through affili-
ation with such area banks." 
The present application fulfills the Board's expectation that 
Applicant would propose an alternate method of entry into the Richmond 
banking market. Applicant proposes to acquire a bank that controls only a 
Small percentage of the market deposits. Although Applicant has the ability 
t o enter the market by establishing a de novo bank, the proposed "foothold" 
acquisition is likely to have beneficial effects on competition in the 
Richmond banking market in that Bank will become a more effective com-
petitor. Bank has operated primarily as a trust company during its 
eighty-year history with little emphasis on commercial or retail banking. 
to its conservative management, Bank has experienced only moderate 
3/ 
growth.— 
As a subsidiary of Applicant, Bank will be strengthened by its 
a°cess to Applicant's management resources, automation, marketing strength 
and full range of services. The Board concludes that the proposed acquisi-
tion will have procompetitive effects on competition in the Richmond bank-
n8 market due to Bank's increased ability to compete with the large bank-
in8 organizations already active in the market as well as the deconcentrating 
effect that Applicant's entrance will have on the major institutions presently 
serving the market. 
— 
— 
During the four-year period 1968-1972, Bank's deposits rose only 26 
cent while the average deposit growth rate of all banks in Virginia 
a s 57 per cent. 

. 
1 2 2 6 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
• i - <• . -- ! 
and future prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are satisfactory 
i 
and consistent with approval of the application. The financial resources of 
Bank ar^ satisfactory, and management and future prospects of Bank will be 
chanced as a result of its acquisition by Applicant. Major banking needs 
in the Richmond market are presently being met. However, in view of the 
fact that affiliation with Applicant will enable Bank to offer new and 
expanded services, Bank will be able to provide the area with a competitive 
alternative for those customers who require full-service banking. Therefore, 
c°nsiderations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served lend weight toward approval of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective April 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
^neehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and 
dimmer. 

1227 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
item No. 5 
4/12/73 
FIRST SECURITY NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of First Security Financial Systems 
First Security National Corporation, Beaumont, Texas, a bank 
holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire voting shares of 
First Security Financial Systems, Houston, Texas ("Company"). Company 
w°uld carry on certain data processing activities now conducted by 
Applicant's subsidiary bank, First Security National Bank of Beaumont, 
Beaumont, Texas ("Bank"). These activities consist of providing book-
keeping or data processing services for the internal operations of the 
h°lding company, its subsidiaries, and for other financially related 
concerns and storing and processing other banking, financial, or other 
economic data related thereto. Such activities have been determined by 
the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(8)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 4598). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, the twelfth largest multi-bank holding company in 
T 
1/ 
controls five banks'" with aggregate deposits of $173 million, 
^presenting 0.6 per cent of the State's total commercial bank deposits. 
^ 
Applicant,~in~additicm to these five banks, owns 24.5 per cent of 
ulage State Bank, Beaumont, Texas, with deposits of $8 million. 

1 2 2 8 
-4-
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through February 15, 1973.) 
Bank ($153 m i H i o n in deposits), Applicant's largest banking subsidiary, 
Presently conducts data processing activities for the internal operations 
Applicant and its banking subsidiaries and conducts certain data pro-
cessing activities for Western National Bank. Houston, Texas ("Western 
National''), an unaffiliated independent bank.~^ Applicant seeks to spin 
off these data processing activities into a newly-formed and separately 
^corporated entity, Company, to be located in the Houston SMSA, a market 
i n v;hich Applicant„ at the present time, has neither a banking nor non-
banking subsidiary. Upon consummation of this transaction, Company will 
c°ntinue to perform the data processing services presently performed by 
Bank. i t appears that the proposed acquisition is a corporate reorgani-
^tion that would have no adverse effect on present or future competition. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
ttle record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
7/ The data processing services performed for Western National consist of 
storing and processing . . . banking, financial, or related economic data 
e § 225.4(a)(8)(ii) of Regulation Y). 
On October 1, 1972, Bank acquired the assets of Professional Administra-
t e Corporation, Houston, Texas, x^hich included, in addition to certain 
ecluipment, an assignment of a bank servicing contract for Western National, 
^ 
an assignment of certain leased premises in the Western National Bank 
uilding, Houston, Texas, for a total consideration of $35,000. All the 
Ssets acquired by Bank in this transaction will be transferred to Company. 

J L 2 2 9 
-3-
subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y 
an<l to the Board's authority to require such modification or termination of 
activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the 
Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
Prevent evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective April 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
{SEAL] 
l^^ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
a eehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and 
dimmer. 

1 2 3 0 
FEDERAL RESERVE iSYStEM 
Item No. 6 
4/12/73 
THIRD NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Mobilehome Guaranty Corporation 
Third National Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has 
8 applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the 
^C t 
, 
a 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of 
t h e voting shares of Mobilehome Guaranty Corporation, Miami, Florida 
( M°bilehome"), and thereby all of the shares of MGC Agency, Inc., 
Slld M G C federal Service Corporation, wholly-owned subsidiaries of 
Mobilehome, and both located in Miami, Florida, Mobilehome and its 
ubsidiaries engage in arranging and servicing mobile home loans for 
and savings and loan associations; making direct loans to 
Hob iiG L. m e dealers to finance inventory; collecting delinquent loans 
ld by Mobilehome; and, selling as agent, credit life insurance to 
debtors and mobile home physical damage insurance on the property 
Setvinp 
8 as collateral for the above-described extensions of credit. 
Sueh 
activities have been determined by the Board to be closely re-
to banking or managing or controlling banks (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), 
(3} 
>> and (9)(ii)(a)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
r e d Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest 
s> has been duly published (38 Federal Register 3120). The time 
i n8 comments and views has expired and none has been timely 
tec*lved. 

1 2 3 1 
-4-
Applicant, through its four subsidiary banks, controls 
aPproximately $712 million in deposits and 7.8 per cent of total com-
bank deposits in Tennessee. (All banking data are as of 
30, 1972,.) Mobilehomc, with total assets of approximately $2.4 
Million (&c of July 31. 1972)> is a. mobile home servicing company 
8Pecialis;ittg in the purchase of instalment sales contracts originated 
b y niQ^ile bone dealers and the sale of such paper to banks and 
SavingS and loan associations, 
The relevant product market in which the Board analyzes the 
competitive aspects of the proposed transaction is mobile home lending. 
^°Mlehome placed $19 million in loans in fiscal year 1971 (ending 
October 31, 1971) with numerous banks and savings and loan associa-
t'!'0ris scattered throughout the southeastern part of the United 
Sh 
The largest share of Mobilehome's business is in Tennessee, 
"her® Applicant's banking subsidiaries are located, There is some 
listing competition in Bradley and Knox Counties between Applicant's 
ariHng subsidiaries and Mobilehome, but in each instance the competi-
k j e consequences do not appear to be significant. Applicant's 
fin 
a n c e subsidiary, Friendly Finance Company, does not originate or 
SerVice mobile home leans„ There is no indication in the record, 
this proposal, that Applicant would be likely to engage de novo 

1 2 3 
-3-
l n m o b i l e home lending in the relevant geographic markets. Barriers 
to entry into the product and geographic markets are not great, and 
there are other potential entrants. It appears, therefore, that 
removal of Applicant as a possible de novo entrant would not be adverse 
to 
Probable future competition. In brief, no substantial amount of 
eXi8M n 
n g o r potential competition would be eliminated by consummation 
o f this proposal. 
It is anticipated that affiliation with Applicant would give 
^obilehome access to the greater resources of Applicant and enable 
° b i l e h o m e t o compete more effectively in the areas in which it operates. 
There -j o 
n o evidence in the record indicating that consummation of the 
Pr°pose.d transaction would result in any undue concentration of re-
unfair competition, conflicts of interests, unsound banking 
PtacM,« 
•ceo, or other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
tlx the 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
^tere<?t- factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
IS 
orable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^ 6 t Q 1* rv. J 
- "ination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) 
of ^ 
Suction Y and to the Board's authority to require such modifica-
termination of the activities of a holding company or any of 
its Subsidiarie s as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 

1 2 3 3 
-4-
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 12, 1973, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
and Brimmer. 

25 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m No. 7 
4/12/73 
BARNETT BANKS OV FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of First State Bank of Lakeland, Lakeland, Florida ("Lakeland 
Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
a H comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 37 banks with aggregate deposits of 
$1.1 billion, representing 6.6 per cent of the total deposits of 
commercial banks in the State and is the thi^d large«Jt..tymkin* 
organization in Florida. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, 
and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
through February 28, 1973.) The acquisition of Lakeland Bank ($24 mil-
lion deposits) would increase Applicant's share of Florida deposits 
by 
one-tenth of one percentage point, and it would "become 
«€Cond 
largest State banking organization. 

_ 
1 2 3 5 
-2" 
; 
Lakeland Bank is located in the City of Lakeland in the 
western half of the Polk County banking market. In terms of deposits, 
it: is the third largest bank in the City of Lakeland and the fifth 
lflrgest in Polk County, holding 4.6 per cent of county deposits. The 
la*gest bank in the city and county is independent and holds 21 per 
Cei*t of total county deposits. Applicant has three present subsidiary 
banks i n the eastern portion of the Polk County market holding 
a£gregate deposits of $47 million (approximately 9 per cent of county 
deposits). These present subsidiaries are located 12, 18, and 20 miles 
£ 
0rn Lakeland. No meaningful competition exists between these or any 
°f Applicantis p r e s e n t subsidiary banking offices and Lakeland Bank, 
a n d it does not appear that significant future competition would develop 
ketv/een them in view of the distances, the presence of intervening 
a n ks, the undeveloped land separating eastern and western Polk County, 
and State laws restricting branching. Competitive considerations are 
c°nsistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Lakeland Bank are satisfactory, in 
^ght of Applicant's commitment to increase capital in its subsidiary 
b a n ks, an<j a r e consistent with approval. The primary banking needs of 
th 
e area are satisfactorily served at the present time. However, the 
Proposed affiliation would enable Lakeland Bank to compete more 
a8gressively for commercial and instalment loans, and Applicant's 
assistance will enable the bank to establish, a. trust department -which 

_ 
1 2 3 6 
-i-
would benefit the community since only two banks in Lakeland now operate 
trust departments. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
the community to be served are consistent with and lend some support 
toward approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this 
Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
ttlis Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
o r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,1/ effective April 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
<SEAL) 
^ 
Voting for this action: 
a a n e» Sheehan, and Bucher. 
a n d Brimmer. 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 

1 2 3 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No„ 8 
4/12/73 
FIDELITY CORPORATION OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Order Approving Acquisition of Commercial Capital Corporation 
Fidelity Corporation of Pennsylvania, Rosemont, Pennsylvania, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t, has applied for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire all of the 
v°ting shares of Commercial Capital Corporation, New York, New York 
( Commercial"), a company that engages in the activity of a commercial 
fir 
t a n c e company. Such activity has been determined by the Board to be 
closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
pGrsons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
bee^ duly published (37 Federal Register 26471). The time for filing 
°ttttnents and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant's only banking subsidiary, The Fidelity Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ("Bank"), is the fifth largest bank in the 
$tat and the fourth largest in the Philadelphia banking market with 
deP°sits of $1.4 billion. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, 
Unie 
1/ 
135 otherwise indicated.) Applicant 
engages in the commercial finance 
busin 
ess through Bank and competes with a large number of companies 
Xa*ly engaged; in fiscal year 1971-72, Bank derived approximately 
mUlion 
or 80 per cent of its commercial finance outstandings from 
"toniers with headquarters in its primary service area (the Delaware Valley) 
in H Pljlicant Las eight direct nonbanking subsidiaries none of which engage 
the commercial finance business. 

1 2 3 8 
-2-
2/ 
Commercial is a relatively small commercial finance company 
operating its sole office in New York City and primarily serving the New 
York City market area,~ the largest commercial finance market in the nation. 
Commercial's principal product market is accounts receivable financing on a 
n°n-notification basis for manufacturers, wholesalers and jobbers engaged 
in various lines of commerce. 
From the facts of record, the Board notes that there is a slight 
overlap i n the areas served by Bank and Commercial and that one common 
Customer exists between them. Nevertheless, the amount of present 
c°mpetition which would be eliminated upon consummation is minimal because 
b°th Applicant and Commercial appear to control an insignificant share 
0f ^ e intensely competitive commercial finance business in the New York 
City 
market. It does not appear, therefore, that consummation herein 
Woi*ld have any adverse effect on existing or potential competition, add 
S 18nif i c a n t l y 
to the existing level of market concentration, or result 
i n an undue concentration of financial resources in the market. 
It is anticipated that Commerical's affiliation with Applicant 
W i lI give Commercial access to the greater capital resources of Applicant, 
W i lI enhance its ability to provide larger loans, and will thereby enable 
it to compete more effectively in the highly competitive market which 
il: serves. 
April 30, 1972, advances and notes receivable totaled $7.9 million 
after tax annual income was $231,278. 
^ 
Approximately 82 per cent of Commercial's volume as of October 31, 1972 
a s derived from customers headquartered in the Hew York City metropolitan 

__ 1 2 3 9 
-3-
Based Upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the 
u r '' 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to 
the Board's authority to require such modification or termination of the 
activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or 
to Prevent evasion thereof. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective April 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
J ^°ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Sheehan, 
not- 
Present and Abstaining: Governor Robertson. Absent and 
voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

* 
1 2 4 0 * 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
the 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
4/12/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
X O D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1973 
Fidelity Corporation of Pennsylvania 
1200 East Lancaster Avenue 
Rosemont, Pennsylvania 19010 
Gentlemen: 
In connection with approval of your application to 
acquire Commercial Capital Corporation, New York, New York, 
the Board has noted that Fidelity Bank has issued letters of 
Credit in substantial amounts to support commercial paper 
borrowings. 
I must advise you that the Board has serious reserva-
tions about the issuance of standby letters of credit to support 
commercial paper borrowings and questions whether such activity 
constitutes a safe and sound banking practice. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
C C : 
Fidelity Bank 
