MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 14, 19 73 

... 4 4 * 1 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, November 14, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Bums, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Broida, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Altmann, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Henry, Associate Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Fieleke, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Siegman, Assistant to the Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ralph Smith, Economist, Division of International 
Finance 
Recent international developments. In March 1968, the central 
banks of Belgium, West Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland, 
United Kingdom, and the United States had agreed to deal in gold with 

4444 
H/14/73 
-2-
each other only at the official price, currently $42.22 per ounce, 
while permitting a free market for private transactions. At today's 
meeting, Chairman Burns reported on an agreement among major central 
banks reached earlier this week in Basle, Switzerland, and announced 
by Chairman Burns in a press conference yesterday evening, terminating 
the two-tier gold system agreed to in March 1968. A discussion followed. 
A copy of the statement issued by Chairman Burns at yesterday's press 
conference is attached as Item No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
11/14/73 
F o* Immediate Release 
November 13, 1973 
Dr. Arthur F. Burns, Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, 
issued the following statement upon his return from a meeting of central 
kankers in Europe: 
The Governors of the central banks of Belgium, 
Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the 
United Kingdom, and the United States at the November 
meeting held in Basle, Switzerland, discussed the 
agreement with regard to official gold transactions 
reached in Washington on March 17, 1968, and decided 
that the agreement should be terminated. 
