MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 18, 1973 

2689 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, July 18, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Regulation Q. On July 16, 1973, the Board briefly discussed 
a number of issues relating to its July 5 and 12, 19 73, actions on 
^egulation Q, Interest on Deposits, in anticipation of a discussion of 
Such issues at a meeting of the Interagency Coordinating Committee on 
&ank Regulation scheduled to be held on July 19, 1973, at which Governor 
^ucher was to represent the Board. 
In a memorandum dated July 16, 1973, the Legal Division described 
e issues to be discussed at the Coordinating Committee meeting, and 

#>30 
7/18/73 
-2-
the differences in position taken with respect thereto by the Board, 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Home Loan 
Bank Board. The primary issues related to the applicability of the 
new Regulation Q penalty provisions adopted by the Board on July 5, 
1973, to withdrawals from deposit contracts in existence on that date, 
and to existing deposits that are amended after July 5 to increase the 
tate of interest or to extend the maturity date. 
After discussion, it was agreed that Governor Bucher would 
indicate to the Coordinating Committee (a) that the Board was prepared 
to adopt an amendment to Regulation Q specifying which time deposits 
would be affected by the new early-withdrawal rules and which would 
be subject to the old "hardship" rule, and (b) that the Board proposed 
to publish for comment a proposed amendment to Regulation Q that would 
treat as a payment of a time deposit before maturity any amendment to 
a time deposit contract that results in an increase in the interest 
rate or in a change in the maturity of the deposit. It was understood 
ttlat, after the reaction of the Coordinating Committee to the proposals 
W as known, the matter would be brought back to the Board for final action. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
