MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 5, 1973 

. 4Z78 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 5, 19 73. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1_/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The research staff presented the regular weekly economic and 
financial review. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of 
the individual briefings. Mr. Rippey then commented on the status of 
proposed legislation of interest to the Federal Reserve. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

11/5/73 
-2-
Staff members who had attended only for purposes of the review 
then withdrew. 
Consent calendar. In a memorandum dated October 31, 19 73, the 
Legal Division recommended that the Board instruct the Federal Reserve 
Banks that applications need not be filed for retention of more than 
5 per cent of bank stock acquired in a fiduciary capacity (with exclusive 
voting rights) where the stock is to be disposed of within a period of 
two years. During discussion at today's meeting, questions were raised 
regarding technical compliance of the proposed procedure with the statutory 
requirement that applications be filed, and the staff was requested to 
study the matter further. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares 
of Citicorp International N.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, for permission 
to invest in Inversiones Citycol, S.A., Bogota, Colombia, and for the 
latter to issue certain debt obligations, A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Manufacturers 
Hanover International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire 
shares of Hanven Ltd., London, England. A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 

11/5/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Chase 
Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, New York, for permission 
for its subsidiary, Chase Manhattan Bank (Switzerland) S.A., Geneva, 
Switzerland, (1) to engage in dealing in and underwriting stocks, and 
(2) to issue certain debt obligations. A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
In a memorandum of October 16, 1973, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended approval of the application of United Virginia 
Bank, Richmond, Virginia, for a one-year extension of time in which to 
open the Cayman Islands shell branch authorized by the Board in October 
1972. After discussion, the Board approved an extension of six months 
rather than one year. Governor Brimmer dissented because of his objection 
in principle to shell branches. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 5. It was brought out that in a few months a 
number of requests might be received for extensions of time within which 
to establish contingent shell branches that the Board had authorized. It 
was understood that the staff would develop guidelines, for consideration 
by the Board, regarding the circumstances in which extensions of time 
would be appropriate. 
The Board approved, Governor Sheehan abstaining, the application 
of First Chicago International Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to 
acquire shares of Inversiones Fenix, C.A., Sociedad Financiera, Caracas, 
Venezuela. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 6. 

4 S 8 1 
11/5/73 
-4-
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its approval, 
on September 27, 1973, of the applications of General Financial Systems, 
Inc., Riviera Beach, Florida, to acquire shares of First National Bank & 
Trust Company of Lake Worth, Lake Worth, Florida, and First National 
Bank & Trust Company, Jupiter/Tequesta, Tequesta, Florida. A copy of 
the order is attached under Item No. 7, along with a copy of a statement 
by Governor Brimmer concurring in part and dissenting in part. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Chase 
Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Chase 
Manhattan Bank of Northern New York (National Association), Canton, 
New York, successor by merger to The First National Bank of Canton. The 
Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 8. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Deposit insurance. In a memorandum of November 2, 1973, the 
Division of Research and Statistics commented on a bill introduced by 
Representative St Germain, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Bank Supervision 
and Insurance of the House Committee on Banking and Currency, that would 
provide full insurance of public deposits by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, and the 
National Credit Union Administration. Each of the authorities responsible 
for the insurance would be empowered to limit the amount of guaranteed 
public deposits, with limits determined on the basis of the asset size of 

11/5/73 
-5-
individual financial institutions. For owners of deposits other than 
public bodies, maximum insurance would be increased from $20,000 to 
$50,000. The Division recommended that, in responding to Representative 
St Germain's request for comments, the Board maintain its previous 
opposition to full insurance of public deposits and suggest 
that only 
a modest increase—perhaps $5,000 or $10,000—would be justified in the 
present ceiling of $20,000 on insured deposits in any one account. A 
draft letter was attached. 
Other documentation included an excerpt from a statement by 
Governor Mitchell before a Senate committee in 1972 regarding earlier 
proposed legislation to provide for full insurance for public deposits, 
and a memorandum from Mr. Rippey dated November 5, 1973, reporting 
comments by Governor Mitchell in a telephone conversation regarding the 
response to be made to the present request. 
Discussion included agreement upon a number of changes in the 
draft letter, one of which would limit the amount of increase that might 
be justifiable in present insurance ceilings to $5,000, for a total of 
$25,000 in any one account. The letter was unanimously approved in the 
form attached as Item No. 9. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, 
Partee, Bryant, Reynolds, Gemmill, and Ralph Smith. 
There followed a brief discussion of recent developments in the 
foreign exchange markets and of System operations in those markets. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

4 283 
B O A R D L1F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
RES** 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OF F I C I A L C O R R t : B P O N D C N C C 
TO the hoard 
11/5/73 
November 5, 1973 
First National City Overseas 
Invcs tment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 3 0022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 13, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent lor your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to purchase 
and hold all. the shares of Citicorp International N.V. ("CI"), Amsterdam, 
Netherlands, at a cost of approximately DG 4,000 (about $1,500), provided 
the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of CI by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CI if CI at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if CI establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
the Netherlands or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
FNCOIC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of CI as it may require 
from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CI 
be reported under Section 213..8(d) of Regulation K 
'in the same manner as if CI were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

2 -
(4) That FNCOIC shall riot carry on its books the shares 
of CI at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of CI, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately 
Preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
o u loans granted by CI in the Netherlands in the currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
You have requested consent for CI to engage in the business of 
underwriting or dealing in securities. 
The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned upon your 
Corporation's obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the continued 
holding of shares of CI should CI. acquire stock of individual issuers 
costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 25 per cent or more of the 
Voting shares of any company, except in the case of underwriting operations 
covered by firm commitments from subunderwriters or other purchasers. With 
respect to trading in securities in which Corporations are prohibited from 
investing by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact 
that CI will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a 
sissc and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, 
and dispose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they are to be 
reported as a separate class, together with the date of acquisition, on 
any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested by the Board. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of Association, 
By-Laws of CI. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4285 
' B O A R D fJF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
a F ™E 
11/5/73 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
o
• 
* fw:f-T&'iv•->>!X* 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
I! 
• 
I ' J A v / V 
" 
A D D R E S S 
U F f l K I A I . 
C O R B E S f ' D N D E N G E 
* 
Tt) T H E 
H O A R D 
" ^t-'RV-Sy. •' 
November 5, 1973 
First National City Overseas 
Invc s tment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 17, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to 
purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all of the shares of 
Inversions Citycol, S.A. ("IC"), Bogota, Colombia, at a cost of 
approximately $1,740,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from Lhe date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed direct or indirect-
purchase and holding of die shares of IC by FNCOIC is granted 
subject to che following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in IC if IC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if IC establishes any' 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Colombia or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors 
FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of IC as it may require 
from time to time; 

.. 4 2 8 B 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by IC be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if IC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of IC at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of IC, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further no Lice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by IC in Colombia in 
the currency of that country. 
The Board's consent is also granted subject to the 
condition that IC confine its data processing services to the^ 
provision of such services in Colombia and neighboring countries 
and to activities incidental to these services. 
The Board also grants consent for IC to issue and to have 
outstanding at any one time debt obligations with o r i g i n a l maturities 
in excess of one year in an amount not to exceed $20,000,000. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of IC. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Fc.ldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

A287 
~ 2 - 
< 
Thai: any share acquisitions or dispositions by K\'L be 
reported under Section 2.1 J..S(d) of Ite^ulrtion Kin the 
same, wanner as if. nV'i* were a corporation organised 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Sub;].-t to. continuing observation and review, the Board 
uati. x urther notice., the provisions of subparagraph (1\ 
-no rmmed.iulo'J.y preceding paragraph of this letter so far as c" (-v 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a),(b) and (c) 
of Regulation K. 
' 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide) ir 
a s they apply to Manui'ac turer s Hanover Trust Company and its afj.n; u m., 
You have requested consent for MVL to engage in the ,bm,inc;s 
of underwriting or dealing in securities. 
The Board's consent to such activities is conditionrd upon 
?/our Corporation obtaining the prior consent of the Boacd for the 
continued holding of shares of MVL should ;IVL acquire stock of: 
^dividual issuers costing in eaeess of >3Ct;,0d0 or represent: ir; 
per ce^t or more of the -voting shares of any ccmpv.ny, c.rcc*t in 
the case of undivroriring operations covered !.y fir.?, commitments fron 
subundarwr: t crs or other purchasers. Uiih respect to trad in?; in 
securities in which Corporations are prohibited iron invest in;; by the 
providions of the ei'dUh paragraph of Section 25(a) of the federal 
Reserve Acl> 
the Board's consent is further conditioned en the feet 
teat KV'L v/ill acquire such snares only as dealer or underwriter, 
warn tain a size and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in 
relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within a reasonable 
time* 
In thin connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
he reported under Section 2U.o(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
arc to be reported as a separate class, tor-ether with the date of 
acquisition, on any Ca'Jl Report of Condition or similar report re-
Nquested by the Board. 
You have requested consent for IfvL to engage in the 
business of providing consulting services outside the United StaJ.cs. 
'fhe board1 s Von: ent is granted subject to the condition that such 
services relating to the U.S. market will be confined to the initial 
entry of foreign companies into that market/-
(3) 
suspends, 

4288 
B O A R D Dir G G V h . R N D R S 
..."V. 
D F ™r 
I tern No. 3 
FEDERAL. RESERVE S Y S T E M 
11/5/73 . 
0 ' ' , > : '.•' 
A'.'. 
VVASHII'iGTON', 
D. 
C. 
20551 
'iji ' 
: ; 
1 
«< , 
|[i !fj I 'iy'.M « 
Aooutis orrmiAt r.o»«f.KPCii;r>r.
'1 
/*•>".' 
to -JI.K noAii» 
November 5, 1973 
Manufacturers Hanover International 
F :i . a a n c e C o r > > o): a i; 5 . o 11 
350 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gent:!err.en: 
Ay requested) in your letter of September 
, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("KUIFC") to purchase 
and hold, directly ov indirectly, 50 per cent of the shares of Men von 
Ltd. (:,KVL,1)> London, Z^Um, 
at a cost of approximately Z5r>,0'J0 
(about ('>125,000) ., provide] the share.; arc s.eqvired within one year from 
tlie date of this letter. 
The Board's consent, to the propound pnrcka/;Q end holding 
of shares of MVI. by KHJ.FC is granted subject to the following condition 
(1) That Nil IOC shall nut hold, directly or indirectly, 
any whores of stock in K7L if MVL at any time 
_ 
x Nfails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organised 
under Section 25(a) c'i the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
, and hold stock; or if: MVL establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or unclci;takes any operation 
in England or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to MlilFC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, UHIFC 
will furnish the Board with such re.ports regarding 
the activities of MVL as it may require from time 
to time; and 

4 2 8 9 
• • A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
.•'oVcoV'- 
DF" THE 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 1 / 5 / 7 3 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
•V, v (f U h • 
A I H 1 R F S K a F r i t : I A L 
C O H R E S P D N D t N C E 
^
y
v
• 
* 
T O 
T i l t 
U O A H D 
-t^Lihf:-' 
November 5, 1973 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
Nati ona1 As socialion 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 9, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your bank ("CMB") to continue to 
hold the shares of Chase Manhattan Bank (Switzerland) S.A. 
("Chase Switzerland"), Geneva, Switzerland, after Chase Switzerland 
issues and has outstanding obligations, with maturities in excess 
of one year, up to a total of $225 million. 
You have requested consent for Chase Switzerland to engage 
in the business of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board's 
consent to such activities is conditioned upon your bank's obtaining 
the prior consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares 
of Chase Switzerland should Chase Switzerland acquire stock of 
individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 
25 per cent or more of the voting shares of any company, except in 
the case of underwriting operations covcred by firm commitments from 
subunderwriters or other purchasers. With respect to trading in 
securities in which Corporations are prohibited from investing by the 
provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact 
that Chase Switzerland will acquire such shares only as dealer or 
underwriter, maintain a size and turnover of inventory that is 
reasonable in relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within 
a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report 
requested by the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

-
4290 
Upon comJetJcn of the. proposed acquisition, it is rectus tec 
that tlie Boar J of Governors be furnished, Lhronrh the Vcav.r.r.1 
rve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Asrecxauxon, h-ruor^uur. 
of Association, and Bv-Lm.'S cu KVL. 
Vary truly yours> 
(Signed) Chester Bv FeIdberg 
Chester B» irelcberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4 291 
E3DARD OF 
G G V E R N • RS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
item No. 5 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
R055I 
11/5/73 
m 
74v 
ADDRESS O F F I C I A L C O R R E S P O N D C N C C 
r n 
T H E 
EJDAWD 
November '9, 1973 
United Virginia Bank 
Box 6E 
Richmond, Virginia 23214 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter of 
September 17, 1973, requesting an extension of time in 
which to establish a branch in the Cayman Islands. In 
view of the contingent manner in which this permission 
is being utilized by your bank and since the Board has 
scheduled a review of its policy in such cases for the 
first half of next year, the Board of Governors grants 
the requested extension only until June 1, 1974. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
i 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

.•qor r.oiV/. 
f||$ ' VAt;'. 
•f^LRES^T' 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
11/5/73 
A D D R E S S 
U I - F I C I A L COKRESPONDENDE 
TG THE BOARD 
November 5, 197.3 
First. Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
One First National Plaza 
Chicago, Illinois 60670 
Gent lemon: 
As requested in your letter of September 7, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FCIFC") to purchase 
and hold, directly or indirectly, 40 per cent of the shares of 
Xnversiones Fenix, C.A., Sociedad Financiera, ("IF"), Caracas, Venezuela, 
at a cost of approximately Bs. 4,550,000 (about $1,058,000), provided the 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In 
this connection, approval is also granted for the purchase and holding of 
shares of IF in excess of 1.0 per cent of your Corporation's capital and 
surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of IF by FCIFC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FCIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in IF if IF at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if IF establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Venezuela or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not. be permissible 
to FCIFC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
FCIFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of IF as it may require 
from time to time; and 

4293 
- 3 -
You have requested consent for IF to engage in the business 
of providing consulting services outside the United States. The Board's 
consent is granted subject to the condition that such services relating 
to the U.S. market will be confined to the initial entry of foreign 
companies into that market. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of IF. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4294 
Item No. 7 
11/5/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
GENERAL FINANCIAL SYSTEMS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
General Financial Systems, Inc., Riviera Beach, Florida, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of; (1) First National Bank & Trust Company of Lake Worth, 
Lake Worth, Florida ("Lake Worth Bank"), and (2) First National Bank 
1 
« Trust Company, Jupiter/Tequesta, Tequesta, Florida ("Tequesta Bank")." 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the applications 
and all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Although each of the applications has been separately 
considered by the Board, because of the facts and circumstances 
y Applicant presently owns 24.9 per cent of the voting shares of 
Lake Worth Bank and 24.3 per cent of the voting shares of Tequesta 
Bank. Such shares were acquired in 1968 and 1964, respectively, 
without Board approval, since Applicant, a one-bank holding company, 
W as not then subject to the Act. Applicant, through the instant 
aPplications, seeks Board approval for acquisitions of enough addi-
tional shares of Lake Worth Bank and of Tequesta Bank to give it 
direct ownership and control of 80 per cent or more of the out-
standing shares of each bank. 

4295 
-2-
common to each, this Order contains the Board's findings and con-
clusions with respect to both applications. 
Applicant controls one bank, First Marine Bank & Trust 
Company, Riviera Beach, Florida ("Riviera Bank"), with deposits of 
about $68 million, which represents approximately 6.1 per cent of 
tQtal deposits in commercial banks in the West Palm Beach County 
banking market-^ a nd about three-tenths of 1 per cent of all such 
deposits in commercial banks in Florida. Riviera Bank is the fifth 
largest of 30 commercial banks in the relevant market. In addition, 
APPlicant owns between 15 per cent and 24.9 per cent of eight 
other banks, with aggregate deposits of about $162 million, 
including four which are located in the West Palm Beach County 
banking market. 
Lake Worth Bank, the second largest bank In the West 
Palm Beach County banking market, controls deposits of $84 million, 
^Presenting 7.5 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
in 
said market and about four-tenths of 1 per cent of all such 
deposits in commercial banks in Florida. Lake Worth Bank is located 
about 12 miles from Riviera Bank; and only very small proportions 
o f Lake Worth Bank's total deposits and loans originate In Riviera 
Bank's service area. Moreover, although some service overlap exists 
Approximated by the upper two-thirds of Palm Beach County. Bank-
n8 data are as of December 31, 1972, unless otherwise indicated. 

-3-
between Lake Worth Bank and the other West Palm Beach County banks, 
including Tequesta Bank, in which Applicant owns voting shares, 
a 8ignificant portion of such overlap involves commercial loans 
and real estate loans and arises, for the most part, from loan 
Patticipations between Lake Worth Bank and such other banks. In 
addition, Applicant and persons associated with Applicant own 
Voting shares in Lake Worth Bank; and a close relationship appar-
ently exists between Applicant and such bank. Consummation of the 
Proposed acquisition of Lake Worth Bank would increase Applicant's 
share of the West Palm Beach County banking market to 13.6 per cent 
Q M J 
cause Applicant to become the largest banking organization in 
Said market. Such consummation would not, however, enable Applicant 
t o dominate the West Palm Beach County banking market, since 12 holding 
c°tnpanies, including the second, third and sixth largest banking organi-
2ations in the State, are represented in said market. Moreover, six of 
th 
e market's banking organizations each control between 6 and 13 per 
Cent of total market deposits. Accordingly, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of the proposed acquisition of Lake Worth Bank would not 
Aversely affect competition in any relevant area. 
Tequesta Bank, with deposits of $32.4 million, is the 
fourteenth largest bank in the West Palm Beach County banking 
market and controls 2.9 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
kanks in such market. Tequesta Bank is located approximately 
1 0 miles from Riviera Bank and about 22 miles from Lake Worth Bank. 

4207 
-4-
The amount of service overlap between Tequesta Bank and each of 
these banks is, accordingly, quite small and does not represent 
a substantial anticompetitive factor. Moreover, Applicant and 
Persons associated with Applicant own approximately 44 per cent 
o f the outstanding voting shares of Tequesta Bank. A close 
relationship apparently has existed between Applicant and Tequesta 
Bank since the latter's formation in 1963; and persons affiliated 
with Applicant have always participated in Tequesta Bank's manage-
ment. Upon consummation of the proposed acquisition of both 
Lake Worth Bank and Tequesta Bank, Applicant would control 16.5 per 
Cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the West Palm Beach 
c°unty market. However, Applicant would continue to face signifi-
cant competition from numerous strong banking organizations already 
^Presented in this market. Accordingly, consummation of the pro-
Posed acquisition of Tequesta Bank would not, either in itself or 
in 
conjunction with acquisition of Lake Worth Bank, enable Applicant 
t o dominate the West Palm Beach County banking market and would not 
adversely affect competition in any relevant area. 
It appears that Applicant has previously engaged in certain 
n°nbanking activities through corporate interests which were spunoff 
t o its shareholders on September 30, 1972. However, certain director 
*nterlocks and indebtedness remain with respect to the transferee 

4238 
-5-
°f such interests. Under section 2(g)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, such relationships give rise to a presumption of control of 
the transferee by Applicant unless the Board, after opportunity for 
faring, determines that Applicant is not, in fact, capable of 
controlling the transferee. However, there appear to be no signifi-
Cant competitive factors present in considering the possible adverse 
interface between such nonbanking activities and Applicant's present 
and proposed banking subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Board believes 
that the instant applications may be approved without first determin-
ing Applicant's control, or lack thereof, of said nonbanking interests; 
3uch a determination shall be made at a later date. 
Applicant has indicated that, within six months after con-
summation of the proposed acquisitions, it will make equity additions 
to the capital structures of Lake Worth Bank, Tequesta Bank, and 
Riviera Bank. In light of this commitment and all facts of record, 
the Board finds that the financial and managerial resources of Applicant 
and each of subject banks are satisfactory and consistent with approval 
o f both applications. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
needs of the community are likewise consistent with approval. There 
a r e , at present, substantial Statewide bank holding companies in 
Florida which represent significant competitive factors in Florida 
hanking; the addition and strengthening of medium and smaller companies, 

„... 4 2 9 5 3 
-6-
iike Applicant, should produce public benefits by enhancing compe-
tition throughout the State. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed acquisitions are in the public interest and that both 
aPPlications should be approved. 
Based upon the record, the applications are approved. 
Th o transactions shall not be made (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the effective date of this Order or 
<b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
° r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective November 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
North n"8 f° r t h e B o a r d ' s action approving the acquisition of Lake 
and h 
k : 
V l G e C h a i r m a n Mitchell and Governors Sheehan, Bucher, 
and 
1 I a n d* 
Voting against this action: Governor Brimmer. Absent 
n o t voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 
fiank?8 f° r t h e B o a r d ' 3 action approving the acquisition of Tequesta 
and ' V l c e Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, 
Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Daane 

STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER, 
CONCURRING IN PART AND DISSENTING IN PART 
I would approve the application to acquire Tequesta Bank, 
but I would deny the application to acquire Lake Worth Bank. 
Acquisition by Applicant of Lake Worth Bank would unite 
under a single parent the second and fifth largest banks in the 
West Palm Beach County market and cause Applicant to become the 
largest banking organization in that market. Acquisition of both 
Lake Worth Bank and Tequesta Bank raises Applicant's share of 
the relevant market from 6.1 per cent to 16.5 per cent—twice that 
o f all but three of Applicant's competitors and significantly larger 
than the share enjoyed by the market's second largest banking 
0rganization. On the other hand, acquisition only of Tequesta Bank 
would increase Applicant's market share to only 9.0 per cent, and it 
would not place Applicant in a dominant position in the West Palm 
Reach market. 
In my view, the Board should not sanction the elimination 
o f competition between the second and fifth largest banks in West 
Palm Beach County; nor should the Board sanction the elimination 
o f competition between Lake Worth Bank and Tequesta Bank. Although 
Applicant now owns shares of Lake Worth Bank and additional shares 
o f such bank are held by officers, directors, employees, and share-
holders of Applicant, the record supports the view that Applicant 

4301 
- 2 -
does not control Lake Worth Bank and that Applicant's influence with 
that bank, though substantial, might decline were subject application 
disapproved. The record indicates, for example, that banks in which 
Applicant owns minority interests (including Lake Worth Bank and 
Tequesta Bank) set their own service charges and loan rates and that 
actual competitive differences do prevail among these various banks. 
Such differences are inconsistent with control. 
There has been no showing that the anticompetitive effects 
o f the proposed acquisition of Lake Worth Bank are clearly outweighed 
i n the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
i n meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Nothing in the record suggests that the banking needs of the community 
a r e being inadequately served at present. Moreover, Applicant's 
resolVe to inject equity capital into certain banks, though commendable, 
should not influence the Board's result, since one such bank is not 
a n object of the instant application, and nothing in the record indicates 
that Applicant Is the only possible source of equity capital for the 
°ther two. 
The record in the instant case contains evidence of acquiescence 
( b y corporate holders of a significant percentage of shares of Lake Worth 
B a n k ) in management and policy decisions by Applicant's representatives 
with respect to such bank. It is my judgment that the facts of this case 
Watranted closer scrutiny by the Board of the cooperative arrangements 

-3-
between Applicant and the corporate organizations involved to determine 
whether such arrangements contravene those provisions of the Bank Holding 
Company Act prohibiting, without prior Board approval, direct or indirect 
control of voting shares of a bank. 
The application to acquire shares of Lake Worth Bank should 
b e denied. 
November 6, 1973 

4303 
Item No. 8 
11/5/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of Chase Manhattan Bank of Northern 
New York (National Association), Canton, New York, successor by merger 
to The First National Bank of Canton, Canton, New York ("Bank"). The 
bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a 
means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organi-
2ation is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of 
Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Petsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
exPired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

-2-
4304 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in New York in 
terms of domestic deposits, controls six subsidiary banks with aggregate 
deposits of approximately $16.9 billion, representing 15.9 per cent of 
the total domestic deposits in commercial banks in the State.1/ Con-
summation of the proposal would not significantly increase Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State. The proposed acquisition represents 
Applicant's initial entry into the Fifth Banking District in New York 
State. 
Bank ($12.1 million in deposits) is the fifth largest of 
banks in the St. Lawrence County banking market and controls about 
7 Per cent of the deposits in that market. The nearest office of one 
o f Applicant's banking subsidiaries is in Syracuse, approximately 144 
r°ad miles from Canton, and there is no significant existing competition 
between their offices or between Bank and any other of Applicant's 
subsidiaries. Moreover, it is unlikely that any substantial amount of 
competition would develop in the future. Under existing New York law, 
Applicant's subsidiaries are prohibited until January 1, 1976, from 
branching into the market. In addition, it appears unlikely that 
Applicant would establish a new bank in the market since population and 
economic growth in the. market have been relatively stagnant and the ratio 
o f population to banking offices in the market is significantly lower 
than that in the State. Applicant's entry through acquisition of one 
o f the market's six unit banks should provide the carket with-a nore 
immediate source of competition for the largest banks and lead to a reduction 
y All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect bank holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
September 30, 1973. 

4305 
in the market's high concentration of deposits (the four largest banks 
control 78 per cent). Several other independent banks will remain 
in the market, so barriers to entry would not be raised by the acquisition. 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition will accordingly not have any 
adverse effects on existing or potential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are satisfactory and 
consistent 
with approval. There is no evidence that the banking needs 
the communities involved are not being adequately met at present. 
However, Applicant proposes to provide, through Bank, an alternative 
source of specialized banking needs and to revitalize and expand the 
range of services offered by Bank. Therefore, considerations relating 
to convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend slight 
Weight toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
Applicant owns two nonbanking subsidiaries, Berkeley Service 
Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, and Dovenmuehle, Inc., Chicago, 
Illinois, which were acquired on June 4, 1969, and December 19, 1969, 
respectively. 
Berkeley Service Corporation is a service agency for 
the Shapiro Factors Division of The Chase Manhattan Bank, and 
Dovenmuehle, Inc., is a mortgage servicing company. 
In making its determination herein, the Board has relied 
upon a finding that the combination of an additional subsidiary bank 

-4-
4398 
with Applicant's existing nonbanking subsidiaries is unlikely to have 
an adverse effect upon the public interest at the present time. However, 
Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities remain subject to Board 
review and the Board retains the authority to require Applicant to modify 
0 r terminate its nonbanking activities or holdings if the Board at any 
time determines that the combination of Applicant's banking and non-
banking activities is likely to have adverse effects on the public interest 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be r.mde 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors ,2_/ effective November 5, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Sh 
* h i s a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
eehan, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and 
Bucher. 

4307 
Item No. 9 
.'lo^S!?*/. 
11/5/73 
•V 
^V/^c' < 
' f ^ ^ 
CHAIRMAN O F T H E Q C> A R D Of-- GOVERNORS 
^
' 
P ED ERAl RESER V E SYSTEM 
- e v ^ i 
111 i I / v-/ - 
. 
W A S H I N G T O N , O . C . 
2 0 5 5 ! 
v'j i t v-./i • 
' 
November 5, 1973 
The Honorable Fernand J. St Germain 
' J" 
-
Chairman 
Subcommittee on Bank Supervision and Insurance 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for the Board's views on 
H. 11. 11221, a bill to provide full insurance for the deposits of 
governmental units and to increase Federal deposit insurance cov-
erage to $50,000. 
The Board believes that it would be unwise to provide full insurance 
of deposits o(: public bodies at institutions insured by the Federal 
De-posit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Savings and 7,oz:i Insurance 
Corporation, and the National Credit Union Administration. 
One reason for our concern over this provision is that large amounts 
of Government obligations held by commercial banks are pledged as 
security against public deposits. Full insurance of these deposits 
would, in many cases, eliminate the necessity for banks to hold such 
obligations. For example, a provision of the U. S. Code (12 U.S.C. 
*) C c * 
specifies that insured banks need not pledge security fur the 
portion of U. S. Government deposits in the bank which are covered 
by deposit insurance. Although many financial institutions may 
continue to hold Government obligations without collateral require-
ments, it is clear that authorizing a full guarantee of deposits of 
Public bodies will result in at least some decrease in demands for 
Government securities and an increase in the borrowing costs of 
governmental units, both at the State and Federal level. 
Moreover, if the principle of full insurance were later extended to 
cover private as well as public deposits, incentives for good bank 
management would be significantly weakened. 
The Board's uncase about the provisions of H. R. 11221 is also 
associated with the proposed large increase in guarantees of other 
deposits--an increase in ceilings from $20,000 to $50,000, So large 

4308 
The Honorable Fernand J. St Germain 
Page Two 
a rise in ceilings goes well beyond the rise in prices that has 
occurred since ceilings were last increased in December 1569. The 
Board believes that if any rise in ceilings is needed at this time, 
a modest increase--on the order of $5,000--is more justifiable. An 
excessively large ceiling would lessen incentives for prudent man-
agement of depository institutions. 
The Board appreciates the opportunity you have afforded us to comment 
on II. R, 11221. Vie hope our comments will prove helpful to you and 
the other members of the Subcommittee. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
