MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 26, 1972 

3Q' >t\" 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 26, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia and Mrs. Scott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, to 
Purchase additional shares of Chase Manhattan Bank Trust Corporation 
Limited, London, England, and for the latter organization to borrow for 
a term longer than one year. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
l s attached as Item No. 1. 

12/26/72 
-2-
Pursuant to a recommendation by Mr. Bryant, Director, Division 
°f International Finance, in a memorandum of December 21, 1972, the 
Board unanimously approved recommending John E. McCorvey, Senior Vice 
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, to provide technical 
assistance requested by the Minister of Finance of Liberia. A copy of 
the letter sent to the Minister of Finance is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Manufacturers 
Hanover Corporation, Dover, Delaware, to acquire shares of Fidelity Bank 
°f Colonie, Latham, New York, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of BancOhio Corpo-
ration, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to 
The Western Security Bank, Sandusky, Ohio. In related actions the Board 
also approved the application of The Sandusky Security Bank to merge with 
The Western Security Bank, and the application of The Sandusky Security 
Bank for membership in the Federal Reserve System. The Board authorized 
Issuance of orders reflecting its decisions with respect to the bank 
h°lding company and merger applications. Copies of the orders are attached 
a S -Ttgnis 4 and 5. A copy of the letter informing The Sandusky Security 
Bank of approval of its application for membership is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Commerce Bancshares, 
lnc«, Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Citizens Bank of Festus, 
Festus, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 

OtjVO / 
12/26/72 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Continental 
Corporation, Boulder, Colorado, to become a bank holding company through 
acquiring shares of The First National Bank of Brush, Brush, Colorado, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of 
the order is attached as Item No. 8. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its action, 
°n December 12, 1972, approving the application of American National Holding 
Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan, to acquire shares of The American National 
Bank in Portage, Portage, Michigan. A copy of the order is attached as 
ltgm_No. 9. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its action, 
December 12, 1972, approving the application of American National 
folding Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan, to acquire shares of the successor 
bY merger to The American Bank of Three Rivers, N.A., Three Rivers, 
Michigan. A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 10, along with 
a copy of the dissenting statement by Governor Robertson. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its action, 
December 12, 1972, approving the application of First Arkansas Bankstock 
Corporation, Little Rock, Arkansas, to acquire solely the mortgage banking 
business of L. E. Lay & Company, Inc., also of Little Rock. A copy of 
the order is attached under Item No. 11, along with a copy of the dissenting 
statement by Governor Robertson. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 

3828 
12/26/72 
-4-
Grandfathered activities: First Oklahoma Bancorporation. The 
staff had reviewed the grandfathered nonbanking activities of First Oklahoma 
Bancorporation, Inc., Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, preparatory to the Board's 
decision whether or not such activities might be continued under the provi-
sions of the Bank Holding Company Act relating to indefinite grandfather 
Privileges. A principal question was whether the company conformed to 
the statutory definition of a "company covered in 1970"; if it did not, 
It would not be entitled to grandfather rights. The Act defined such a 
c°nipany as one that became "a bank holding company as a result of the 
enactment of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 and which 
w°uld have been a bank holding company on June 30, 1968, if those amendments 
had been enacted on that date." First Oklahoma Bancorporation became a 
registered bank holding company in January 1963, pursuant to the Board's 
aPProval late in 1962 for acquisition of shares of The First National Bank 
and Trust Company of Oklahoma City and of Idabel National Bank, Idabel, 
°klahoma. It owned shares of both banks on June 30, 1968, although in 
q 
ePtember 1968 it sold all shares of the Idabel bank and thus ceased to be 
bank holding company as then defined. 
In a memorandum of December 21, 1972, the Legal Division recommended 
that the Board find that First Oklahoma Bancorporation was not a "company 
e°vered in 1970" within the meaning and intent of the Act. There was 
nothing in the statute or its legislative history to suggest that Congress 
intended that a multibank holding company should be able to acquire grand-
father privileges by turning itself into a one-bank holding company between 

3823 
12/26/72 
-5-
June 30, 1968, and December 31, 1970, and therefore the Division concluded 
that the company was not entitled to grandfather privileges. 
In a memorandum of December 19, 1972, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section presented their findings 
with respect to the review of First Oklahoma Bancorporation's nonbanking 
activities for use in the event that the Board determined that the company 
Was entitled to grandfather rights. 
Discussion included expressions of concern by the Board regarding 
a number of apparent violationsof the Bank Holding Company Act and unsafe 
and unsound practices on the part of First Oklahoma Bancorporation, which 
were currently being explored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
further comments developed unanimous agreement to adopt the position that 
the holding company was not a "company covered in 1970" and therefore not 
entitled to grandfather rights. The issuance of a determination to that 
effect was authorized. A copy of the determination subsequently issued is 
attached as Item No. 12. It was brought out that the Board had granted 
M i s s i o n for some of the activities of the holding company subsidiaries; 
°thers fell within the scope of permissible activities but the holding 
c°mpany should apply for the Board's permission to engage in them; and 
S t i U other activities were not permissible. There was agreement that the 
hoIding company should be apprised of these facts in a letter. A copy of 
the letter sent to the holding company is attached as Item No. 13. 

3330 
12/26/72 
-6-
Grandfathered activities: Alaska Bancorporation and Alaska 
Bancshares. In a memorandum of December 14, 1972, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section reported on the 
review under the Bank Holding Company Act of the grandfathered nonbanking 
activities of Alaska Bancorporation and Alaska Bancshares, Inc., both 
Anchorage, Alaska. 
Alaska Bancorporation's nonbanking activities, including Alaska 
North Slope Oil Company, Anchorage, were acquired subsequent to June 30, 
l968, and therefore were not eligible for grandfather privileges. Accord-
ingly, the company must either divest its indirect control (through Alaska 
Bancshares) of Alaska State Bank, Anchorage, or qualify its nonbanking 
activities under section 4(c)(8) of the Act by December 31, 1980. 
With respect to Alaska Bancshares, the staff recommended approval 
of indefinitely grandfathered nonbanking activities, but that the public 
statement indicate the Board's awareness of the unsatisfactory financial 
c°ndition of the holding companies, the resultant unsound banking practices 
in the subsidiary bank, and the unsatisfactory management situation in 
the bank. The memorandum noted that Alaska Bancshares' nonbanking activ-
U i e s did not contribute to those conditions. In fact, a substantial part 
0f the company's income was derived from its nonbanking activities, and if 
it: was required to discontinue them, its financial structure would be 
further weakened. 
Discussion brought out that although the financing of Alaska 
N°rth Slope Oil Company apparently gave rise to the unsafe and unsound 

12/26/72 
-7-
conditions in the holding companies and the subsidiary bank, under present 
circumstances divestiture of the oil company could not be required before 
December 31, 1980. Correction of the unsafe and unsound conditions must 
be accomplished through coordination with the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and it was agreed that the Board's staff should work closely 
with the Corporation to that end. There was agreement with a suggestion 
fchat approval of continuation of the nonbanking activities of Alaska 
Bancshares carry a condition that the company's real estate development 
activities be confined to the two properties now owned. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board unanimously approved 
the issuance of a determination in the form attached as Item No. 14. 
Grandfathered activities: Houston National Company. In a memoran-
dum of December 19, 1972, the staff reported on the review under the Bank 
^°lding Company Act of the grandfathered nonbanking activities of Houston 
National Company, Houston, Texas. The primary issue was the company's 
status as a "successor corporation" under the Act; a positive determination 
w°uld establish its eligibility for indefinite grandfather rights. Since 
^ecember 1968 the company had owned 100 per cent of Houston National Bank, 
4Q Per cent of which had previously been owned by Tenneco, Inc. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas recommended that Houston National 
Cn 
mPany be given the status of a successor corporation. The Division of 
SuPervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section recommended that 
if f-u 
the company was determined to be a successor, its indefinite grandfather 

3832 
12/26/72 
-8-
authority be continued. The Legal Division believed that the company 
was not a successor corporation because (1) whereas Tenneco, Inc., owned 
40 per cent of the bank prior to June 30, 1968, Houston National Company 
at present owned 100 per cent, which it acquired by means of an interim 
merger; (2) the term "successor" was defined in the Act as "any company 
which acquires directly or indirectly from a bank holding company shares 
°f any bank . . . " without resulting in a substantial change of ownership; 
and (3) when Houston National Company acquired the bank's shares from 
Tenneco, Inc., the latter was not a bank holding company, since the 1970 
amendments were not then in force. Attached to a memorandum of December 22, 
l9?2, from the Legal Division was a draft letter to Houston National Company. 
The Legal Division also recommended that the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
b e requested to make a further investigation of the status of Tenneco, 
, as a bank holding company. 
Discussion having indicated agreement with the position recommended 
bV the Legal Division, the letter to Houston National Company was approved 
Unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 15. A letter was sent to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas in the form attached as Item No. 16. 
First National City Overseas. In a memorandum dated December 15, 
1 9 7 2, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application Qf First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
N e w York, New York, to acquire shares of a finance company to be formed 
in Trinidad and Tobago. The proposed letter of approval would contain no 

3933 
12/26/72 
-9-
explicit restrictions on warehousing activities, one of the types of 
business in which the subsidiary would engage. The omission of such 
restrictions followed the example of the approval by the Board (on 
December 22, 1972) of an application by Bamerical International Financial 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, to acquire shares of a warehouse 
business in Guatemala. 
The application was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting on 
the ground that he believed that restrictions should be placed on ware-
housing, as had been done with respect to applications preceding that of 
Bamerical International. A copy of the letter sent to First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation is attached as Item No. 17. 
Tennessee Homestead Company. Pursuant to the recommendations 
°t the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section in a memorandum of December 5, 1972, the Board unanimously approved 
the applications of Tennessee Homestead Company, Ogden, Utah, to consolidate 
Budget Finance Company, Jonathan Edmund Browning Corporation, and Frank M. 
downing, Incorporated, present subsidiaries of the holding company, and 
thereby to acquire direct ownership of additional shares of Bank of Utah 
a n d Bank of Ben Lomond, both of Ogden, Utah. The Board also authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting these decisions. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 18. In a related action, the Board unanimously approved 
a letter stating a preliminary determination that Tennessee Homestead 
C°npany exercises a controlling influence over the management and policies 

3834 
12/26/72 
-10-
of Bank of Ben Lomond and of Bank of Northern Utah, Clearfield, Utah. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 19. 
Midwest Bank Shares. In a memorandum of December 19, 1972, the 
division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended approval of the application of Midwest Bank Shares, Inc., 
Moline, Illinois, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of 
shares of The DeWitt County National Bank of Clinton, Clinton, Illinois. 
The Division recommended that approval be conditioned upon divestiture of 
fche applicant's nonbanking activities within two years. 
The Board unanimously approved the application, with the divestiture 
c°ndition, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 20. 
Cincinnati Branch property. Pursuant to the recommendation of 
a e Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum of 
December 26, 1972, the Board authorized the Federal Reserve Bank of 
pi 
eveland to sell the old Cincinnati Branch building property. A copy 
0f the telegram sent to the Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 21. 
Grandfather privileges. A press release and determinations were 
lssued on December 26, 1972, with respect to the status of 30 bank holding 
e°mPanies under the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act relating 
grandfather privileges. Copies of the documents are attached under 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

^Wliiifi® • 
''Kres^.'* 
9 D A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
12/26/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R K S P O N D E N C E ; 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 26, 1972 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
York, New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 26, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("CMOBC"), 
purchase and hold additional shares of Chase Manhattan Bank 
?tust Corporation Limited, ("CM3TC"), London, England, at a cost 
of approximately £4,000,000 (about $9,600,000), provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter, Jr. this 
connection, approval is also granted for the purchase and holding 
o i shares of CMBTC in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's 
CaPital and surplus* 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
o f shares of CMBTC by CMOBC is granted subject to the following 
Editions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CMBTC if CMBTC at any ticne 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal-
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if 
CMBTC establishes any branch or agency or takes 
any action or undertakes any operation in London 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible tc CMOBC; 
(2) That when required by the Board of Governors, 
CMOBC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of CMBTC as it may 
require from time to time; and 

Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
O QOC 
O d u b 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
CMBTC be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if CMBTC 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act, 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) 
of Regulation K. 
You have requested consent for CMBTC to engage in the 
°usiness of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board's 
consent to such activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's 
°btaining the prior consent of the Board for the continued holding 
shares of CMBTC should CMBTC acquire stock of individual issuers 
c°stirig in excess of $500,000 or representing 2 5 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of any company, except in the case of underwriting 
pcrations covered by firm commitments from subunderwriters or other 
Purchasers. With respect to trading in securities in which Cor-
porations arc prohibited from investing by the provisions cf the 
®lShth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal Restrvc? Act, the 
card's consent is further conditioned on the fact that CMBTC v;ill 
^Cctuire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size 
turnover of inventory chat is reasonable in relation to demand, 
anc* dispose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
k 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer neod not 
e reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
Ccluisition, on anv Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
HUGst-ed bv the Board. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
at the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
O £ A ,, , 
' 
1 
•ibKn'M 
r .«.>« ^f- rMvrrr 
sociation, and By-Laws of CMBTC, 
> 
The Board also grants consent for CMOBC to continue to 
The
d f h e siiare-s of CMBTC after CMBTC Issues a promissory note to 
v
 
c'riase Manhattan Bank, national Association, or to CMOBC 
r
r?Sentir.g a five-year subordinated term loan in the amount of 
^;J0o»000 ($4,800,000) and issues and has outstanding obligations 
i e Maturities in excess of one year in an amount not exceeding 
4 J ti 
17 n 
i L s registered and oaid-in capital, exclusive of the 
,00o>000 Loan. 

Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-3-
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National 
Association, and its affiliates,, 
Very truly yours, 
y / 
r / 
J-f/can x/**"'* 
/ Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3838 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m 
N o • 2 
O F THE: 
. 
1 2 / 2 6 / 7 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, O. C. H 0 5 S I 
ANOHEW F,DRIMM£3 
MEMBER OF THE! eOARO 
_ 
/ 
' 
December 26 , 197-2 
•"le Honorable Stephen Tolbert 
Minister of Finance 
Monrovia, Liberia 
fcear Steve: 
I am pleased to inform you that we have found an excellent 
person to provide you with the technical assistance requested in 
}*f>ur letter of October 27. 
, 
We recommend for this assignment Mr. John E. McCorvey, Senior 
^Ice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Mr. McCorvey 
ma been with the Federal Reserve System since 1925. He served in the 
f i c i 
^ S c a i agency area for 23 years. He has had broad experience in the 
l'-elds of accounting, budget and cost analysis, banking and public 
s-'tvices, the handling of currency and coin and protection. He 
Recently played an important role in surveying the need for a Federal 
facility in the Miami area and in establishing that facility 
1 
'-» 
T , 
that he. io ideally suited to assist you with the problems 
ftat you have outlined to us. He would be available to go to Liberia 
y ^id-January 1973. 
If you would like to have Mr. McCorvey undertake this assign-
please write, indicating when you would like him to arrive. The 
^-*-anta Bank will provide Mr. McCorvey's services to you without charge, 
Jf!" your Government will be expected to pay travel expenses and a reason-
^ 
par diem to cover his expenses in Liberia. Mr. McCorvey would like 
Vft 
wife accompany him, but you would not be expected to bear 
^ Do^ exPerii3G of her travel. It is our understanding that the assignment 
be for a period not to exceed three months. 
I am pleased that we have been able to find a well-qualified 
hi 
t o r 
assignment. It is a pleasure to have been able to 
Service tc you. 
S ince rely your s 5 

3839 
Item No. 10 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MANUFACTURERS HANOVER CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, Dover, Delaware, a bank 
folding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of Fidelity Bank of Colonie, 
Latham, New York ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
peraons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
W i t h § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
e*Pired and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
teceived in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
( U U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is the third largest banking organization in New 
controlling two banks with aggregate deposits of $9.2 billion 
presenting 9.4 per cent of all deposits of commercial banks in the 
State.1/ Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $33.1 million) would 
C°nstitute Applicant's initial entry into the Albany banking market 
w°uld not change Applicant's ranking among banking organizations 
ttl the State. 
i T ^ r — 
t0 .f11 banking data are as of June 30, 1972, except for those relating 
to r 
Albany market, which are as of June 30, 1970, and are adjusted 
the
 e f l e c t bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
Bo*rd through November 30, 1972. 

3340 
-17-
Bank is the eleventh largest of 14 banks in the Albany 
inking market, controlling 1.4 per cent of total deposits in that 
MarketJJ Applicant's nearest subsidiary office to Bank is approximately 
miles distant. It appears that no meaningful competition exists 
between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiary banking offices. 
Further, it seems unlikely that meaningful competition would develop 
lri the future between Bank and Applicant in light of the facts presented, 
notably, the distances separating these banks and the New York statutes 
Prohibiting Applicant's subsidiaries from branching into the Albany 
banking market until 1976. It appears that acquisition of Bank would 
n°t have a significant adverse effect on the remaining banks in the 
Levant market nor foreclose entry by other bank holding companies 
int-
lCo that market, as five independent banks would remain as potential 
^tobera of other bank holding companies. Furthermore, entry by 
APPlicant may have a procompetitive effect by enabling Bank to compete 
B,0te effectively with the two largest banks in the Albany market which 
C°ntr°l approximately 45 per cent of market deposits. Consummation 
^ the proposed acquisition would remove home office protection from 
th 
e town of Latham and permit new competitors to enter this developing 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that. 
consummation of the proposal herein would not have an adverse 
c t on competition in any relevant area. 
approximated by Albany, Rensselaer, and 
the southern tip of Saratoga County. 
y^rir 
Albany market is 
enectady Counties and 

386? 
-3-
The financial condition, managerial resources and future 
Prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks appear satisfactory. 
A s a result of the affiliation of Applicant with Bank and Applicant's 
c°nunitment to make a significant contribution of additional capital to 
®ank, Bank's financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
a r e regarded as satisfactory. The expected strengthening of Bank's 
CaPital position lends weight to approval of the application. Consid-
erations relating to the convenience and needs of the community to be 
Served are consistent with approval of the application. It is the 
Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
th 
e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
^Is Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
* this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
»rd 
authorlty. 
^°ard or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, pursuant to delegated 
By order of the Board of Governors,2/ effective December 27, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEA L ) 
Mit_,0tin8 for this action? Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
CUel1 r» 
GoVp 
» Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
° r Bucher. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
BancOhio Corporation, Cfclumbus, Ohio, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of 
the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the 
successor by merger to The Western Security Bank, Sandusky, 
Ohio ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank will be merged has no signif-
icance except as a means of acquiring the voting shares of Bank. 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the successor organisa-
tion is treated as the proposed acquisition of the shares of 
Bank, 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has 
b®en given in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time 
filing comments and views has expired, and the Board has 
Co*sidered the application and all comments received in light 
0 f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 32 banks with aggregate deposits 
0f approximately $1.9 billion. (All banking data are as of 
Member 31, 1971, and reflect bank holding company formations 
acquisitions approved by the Board through November 15, 1972.) 
3842 
Item No. 
10 
12/26/72 

3343 
-2~ 
®ased on its percentage share of total commercial bank deposits in the 
^rket, Bank is the third largest of the 12 banking organizations in the 
Sandusky banking market (approximated by Erie County, the northern portion 
of Huron County, the eastern portion of Ottawa County and the Northeast 
c°rner of Sandusky County) and holds 12.9 per cent of total deposits held 
the commercial banks located in that market. No banking subsidiary of 
applicant is located in the market, and the closest banking subsidiary of 
Applicant is located some 37 miles southwest of Sandusky. There is no 
Substantial existing competition between Applicant's present banking 
OJ.L 
sidiaries and Bank; and, for several reasons, including the distances 
involved, the presence of banking alternatives in the intervening areas, 
ia Ohio's prohibition against branch banking beyond county lines, there 
is 
n° substantial likelihood of future competition developing between those 
Ubsidiaries and Bank. On the basis of the record before it, the Board 
°ncludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
ct competition in any relevant area. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
future prospects of Applicant and its subsidiaries and Bank are regarded 
Satisfactory. Applicant proposes to provide, through Bank, trust services-
s^ntly unavailable in Sandusky—and to aid Bank in starting international 
^d i 
basing services. Convenience and needs considerations relating to the 
Utlities to be served are consistent with approval. It is the Board's 
^ent that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the 
c interest and that the application should be approved. 

3344 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
teasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
UtUess such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
^eserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
l/^rr 
5 Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
ne> Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

3 3 4 5 
Item No. 5 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE SANDUSKY SECURITY BANIC 
Order Approving Merger under Bank Merger Act 
The Sandusky Security Bank, Sandusky, Ohio ("Applicant"), 
a Proposed State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, has 
aPPlied pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) for 
th 
e Board's prior approval to merge with The Western Security 
Bank, Sandusky, Ohio, under the charter of Applicant and the 
n a m e o f T h e Western Security Bank and to operate branches at 
the locations at which The Western Security Bank presently 
derates branch offices. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, 
ia form approved by the Board, has been published and the Board 
8 requested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney 
ral, the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit 
surance Corporation. The Board has considered all relevant 
e r l al contained in the record in the light of the factors 
Set f°rth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
th 
e reasons summarized in the Boardfs Order of this date 
*n a t i n 
n8 to the application of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, 
' 
0 acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
^Ufv-f 
ying shares) of the successor by merger to The Western 
S 
rity Bank, Sandusky, Ohio. The transaction shall not be 

consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
the date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the date of this Order, and (c) The Sandusky Security Bank, 
Sandusky, Ohio, shall be opened for business not later than 
six months after the effective date of this Order. Each of 
the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good 
C a u s e by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors 
effective December 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Hit 
»cher. 
Bti 
» Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor 

B O A R D 
OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20555 
Item No. 10 
12/26/72 
. W T ' W V V 
-1 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 27, 1972 
Board of Directors, 
Sandusky Security Bank, 
Sandusky, Ohio. 
Gentl emen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
aPproves the application of The Sandusky Security Bank, Sandusky, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, subject 
0 the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and. except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposits liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
The Sandusky Security Bank will not conduct a banking business 
n the public prior to its merger with The Western Security Bank, 
**ndasky, Ohio. 
I 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
p rfcicular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
^Gulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
- Federal Reserve System, with especial reference tc Section 208.7 
c 
'-of. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

. 3348 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
b e determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
j I 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
^rectors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
usiness. A certified copy of such resolution should be transmitted to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Keserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
0ard and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board. 
^closure. 

3 8 ^ 3 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/26/72 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
fo* the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
tn acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Citizens Bank of 
Festus, Festus, Missouri. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
n°ne has been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
ln x*ght of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant has twenty-three subsidiary banks with total deposits 
$995.9 million, representing 8.0 per cent of total commercial bank 
p°sits in Missouri, and is the second largest bank holding company and 
bani(1 
in8 organization in the State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 
1972 
» adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
^Proved by the Board through December 15, 1972.) 
The acquisition of 
wl6.3 million deposits) would increase Applicant's share of the State's 
tal deposits by 0.13 per cent, increasing concentration in Missouri 
^ 
Slightly. 
Bank is the largest of seven banking organizations in the 
tii 
s"Crystal City banking market which includes all of Jefferson County 
a small northern portion that is included in the St. Louis market. 
°u8h Bank controls 26.9 per cent of market deposits, it is only slightly 

3850 
- 2 -
*a*ger than the second largest bank ($14;6 million deposits) and does not 
aPPear to be dominant in the market. Applicant's closest subsidiary banking 
office is located in a separate market area, twenty miles north of Bank. 
There is no meaningful present competition between any of Applicant's 
Subsidiary banks and Bank. Furthermore, it appears unlikely that any 
si8nlficant competition would develop between any of Applicant's subsidiaries 
and Bank in the future due to the distances separating the banking offices, 
ssouri's restrictive branching law, and the presence of numerous banking 
alternatives in the intervening areas. The Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposal would not eliminate existing or potential competition, nor 
w°uld it have significantly adverse effects on any competing bank. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
an<3 future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are 
satiSfactory ancl consistent with approval of the application. While it 
PPears that major banking needs in the area are being met, considerations 
tejo*. J 
C1ng to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are 
°nsistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment 
**at the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
^Plication should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
asons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
bfcj 
t e the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
Of (M 
' later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
i 

-3-
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ effective December 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
V 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^tchell, Daane, Brimmer and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor 
Sucher. 

Item No. 
10 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST CONTINENTAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
First Continental Corporation, Boulder, Colorado, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares (qualifying shares to be sold to 
directors immediately thereafter) of The First National Bank of Brush, 
Br*sh, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is a nonoperating company, recently formed for the 
Impose of acquiring Bank ($8.5 million deposits). (Banking data are as of 
June 30, 1972.) Bank is the third largest of six banks in Morgan County 
which is the relevant market area; the two largest banks hold deposits of 
and $11.2 million, respectively. Consummation of the proposal would 
have no adverse effects on the other market banks. Since Applicant has 
n° Present operations or subsidiaries, it appears that consummation of the 
Pr°Posal would not significantly affect existing or potential competition, 
^reforfey competitive considerations are consistent with approval of the 
application. 
Applicant's management is capable, its financial condition is 
^ePendent on that of Bank which is deemed to be satisfactory. Prospects 
A 
°r both Applicant and Bank are favorable in view of Applicant's plan to 
Ptovide the management Bank needs and additional staff. Although Applicant 

3353 
-2-
will incur considerable debt in acquiring Bank, its income from Bank should 
Provide sufficient revenue to retire the debt within ten years. Banking 
factors are therefore consistent with approval of the application. Con-
siderations relating to the convenience and needs of the community are also 
consistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment 
that the transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
Masons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
Ur*less such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Pederal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"^ effective December 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^tchell, Daane, Brimmer and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor 
Bucher. 

3854 
Item No. 10 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AMERICAN NATIONAL HOLDING COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
American National Holding Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting 
shares (less directors1 qualifying shares) of The American 
National Bank in Portage, Portage, Michigan ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been 
given in accordance with 5 3(b) of the Act. The time for 
filing comments and views has expired, and the Board has 
considered the application and all comments received in light 
o f the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank-'with deposits of approximately 
^83 million, representing less than 1 per cent of total deposits 
in 
commercial banl.s in Michigan, and is the eighteenth largest 
b*nking organization in the State. (All banking data, except 
Tr"*" 
J' By Order dated December 5, 1972, the Board approved Applicant's 
PPlication to acquire shares of a second bank, the successor by 
^erger t Q T h e N i l e s National Bank and Trust Company, Niles, Michigan. 
a ay> the Board also announced, by separate Order, its approval of 
^PPlicant's application to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
0 The American Bank of Three Rivers, N.A., Three Rivers, Michigan. 

3855 
-3-
otherwise noted, are as of December 31, 1971.) Upon acqui-
sition of Bank ($4.0 million deposits), Applicants share of 
State deposits would remain less than 1 per cent, and Appli-
cant's ranking among the State's banking organizations would 
remain unchanged. 
Bank, which was established in 1972 by the management 
of 
Applicant as a spin-off of a branch of Applicant's lead bank, 
serves the Kalamazoo banking market (approximated by the 
Kalamazoo SMSA) and, with approximately 0.0 per cent of 
market deposits, is the smallest of five banks operating 
therein.-^ 
Bank derives a portion of its loan and deposit business 
from areas served by Applicant's banking subsidiary, the closest 
office of which is the South Westnedge branch, located approximately 
mile north of Bank's sole office. However, in view of the 
close relationship that has existed between Applicant and Bank 
since its organization, it appears that no meaningful competition 
between Bank and Applicant's subsidiary bank would be eliminated 
a s a result of consummation of Applicant's proposal. Further, 
view of Bank's small size, legal prohibitions against the 
establishment of branches in Portage by Applicant's banking 
f p K S e t deposit dataware as of June 30, 1970, at which time Bink's 
^Ice served as a branch office of Applicant's banking subsidiary. 
f
a n k operated as a branch office of Applicant's banking subsidiary 
tom 1 9 6 3 u n t i l J a n u a r y > 1972, at which time Bank was spun-off as 
o t of a reorganization of Applicant's banking subsidiary into a 
ne-bank holding company in order to comply with Michigan banking law. 

3856 
-3-
subsidiary and against the establishment of branch offices by 
Bank in any city, town, or village in which Applicant's bank-
ing subsidiary maintains offices, and the close association 
between Bank and associates of Applicant x^hich is likely to con-
tinue irrespective of the Board's action on this application, 
it appears that no meaningful competition between Bank and 
Applicant's subsidiary bank would develop in the future. 
Moreover, it appears unlikely that any significant competition 
w°uld develop between any of Applicant's proposed subsidiaries 
atlc* Bank in the future in view of the distances separating the 
banking offices, the number of banks in the intervening areas, 
and State laws restricting branching. Even though Bank may 
^galiy branch into the same areas in which Applicant's present 
J 
one of its proposed subsidiary banks may branch, in view 
the relatively sparse populations of the areas involved, 
8uch a prospect appears remote. On the basis of the facts of 
*ecord, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
would have no significant adverse effects on exist-
competition, nor would it foreclose the development of 
SiSnificant competition. 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and 
Pr°8Pects of Applicant are considered satisfactory and consistent 
Hth approval of the application. The same conclusions apply 
vith Aspect to Applicant's present subsidiary particularly in 

-4-
3357 
view of Applicant's recent contribution of $2-1/2 million to 
the equity account of that bank. The financial condition, 
Onagerial resources, and future prospects of Bank appear 
favorable. Considerations relating to banking factors, 
therefore, are consistent with approval of the application. 
Although Applicant does not intend to introduce any services 
a t Bank not presently available in the community, considerations 
Elating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served lend weight toward approval of the application in view 
°f the assistance Applicant will provide Bank in establishing 
additional branch offices and other continuing assistance 
Vjhich Applicant may provide Bank. It is the Board's judgment 
fchat consummation of the proposed transaction would be in the 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not 
k® consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the effective date, of this Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ effective December 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^anpi 1* Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Q e an3 Brimmer' 

3358 
Item No. 10 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AMERICAN NATIONAL HOLDING COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
American National Holding Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act, has applied for the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(3) 
°f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting 
scares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor 
by merger to The American Bank of Three Rivers, N.A., Three 
Rivers, Michigan ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no 
significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition 
o f the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acqui-
sition of shares of the successor organization is treated herein 
a s the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity 
c 
°r interested persons to submit comments and views, has been 
8 i v en in accordance with 5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing 
Comments a n d v i e w s 'ias expired, and the Board has considered 
th 
e application and all comments received in light of the factors 
8et forth in S 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant presently controls one banlJ^ with deposits 
f aPproximately $103 million, representing less than 1 per cent 
jT^~~0rder dated December 5, 1972, the Board approved Applicant's 
ication to acquire shares of a second bank, the successor by 
Als
8er t 0 The Niles National Bank and Trust Company, Niles, Michigan. 
separate Order issued today, the Board approved Applicant's 
t> Nation to acquire shares of The American National Bank in 
ca8e, Portage, Michigan. 

2 
3859 
of total deposits in commercial banks in Michigan, and is the 
®ighteenth largest banking organization in the State. (All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1971, unless otherwise 
indicated.) Upon acquisition of Bank ($5.8 million deposits), 
Applicant's share of State deposits would remain less than 1 per 
cent, and Applicant's ranking among the State's banking organiza-
tions would remain unchanged. 
Bank, which has been closely associated with Applicant 
through common ownership since 1968, operates both its main 
office and its sole branch office in Three Rivers in the St. 
Joseph County banking market (approximated by the boundaries of 
St« Joseph County) and, with approximately 5#4 per cent of 
market deposits, is the sixth largest of nine banking organiza-
tions operating therein. Applicant's present subsidiary bank 
°Perates a branch office in the relevant market at Mendon, 
^Proximately 13 miles northeast of Bank's two offices in 
Rivers, Based on June 30, 1970 deposit data, Applicant, 
^ virtue of the deposits in the Mendon office held approximately 
Per cent of commercial bank deposits in the market, thereby 
t a aHng as the eighth largest of the nine banking organizations 
^ the market. Consummation of the proposed transaction would 
AppXicant control of 8.2 per cent of deposits in. the 
arlcet thus making Applicant the fifth largest of eight banking 
rSani2ations in a market in which approximately 70 per cent 
of t, 
a e total deposits are held by the three largest banking 
0rSani2ations> 

3860 
-3-
Bank derives an insignificant portion of its deposits 
and loans from areas served by Applicant's present or proposed 
banking subsidiaries. Similarly, those banks derive only an 
insignificant portion of their deposits and loans from the 
service area of Bank. It appears, therefore, that no significant 
competition between Bank and Applicant's present or proposed 
subsidiary banks would be eliminated as a result of consummation 
Applicant's proposal. 
In addition, Michigan branching law effectively prohibits 
Applicant's subsidiary bank and Bank from branching into each 
others service areas, except at locations which appear unattractive 
a s sites for branch offices. For the same reason, it appears 
U t U i k e l y that Bank and Applicant's proposed subsidiary banks 
c°uld or would establish branch offices in competition with one 
another irrespective of Bank's long-standing affiliation with 
applicant. Further, Bank does not appear to be such a significant 
competitor that Applicant should be expected to enter the St. Joseph 
Market through a less significant acquisition or by de novo means, 
n°r does Bank possess the resources to be considered a potential 
^ad bank in a new bank holding company. The Board concludes 
^erefore that it is unlikely that any significant competition 
v°uld develop between any of Applicant's present or proposed 
8ubsidiaries and Bank in the future. On the basis of the facts 
record, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
^ i s i t i o n 
would have no significant adverse effects on existing 
^Petition, nor would it foreclose the development of significant 
^Petition. 

-3-
3361 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and 
Prospects of Applicant are considered satisfactory and consistent 
with approval of the application. The same conclusions apply 
*ith respect to Applicant's present subsidiary particularly 
ia view of Applicant's recent contribution of $2-1/2 million 
to the equity account of that bank. The financial condition, 
managerial resources, and future prospects of Bank appear 
favorable. Considerations relating to banking factors, there-
f°r®» are regarded as consistent with approval of the application. 
Applicant does not intend to introduce any services at Bank not 
Presently available in the community; however, considerations 
bating to the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be 
served are consistent with approval of the application. It 
is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
r^saction would be in the public interest and that the applica-
tio 
n should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
°n8ummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day folloxd.ng the 
Active date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
e Effective date of this Order, unless such period is 

-5-
3362 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective December 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
-heehan and Bucher. Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Brimmer. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
3 3 6 3 
The Board today has approved the acquisition by 
American National Holding Company of two banks, acquisition 
either of which alone appears innocent enough, but when 
fc*ken together represent, in my view, an undesirable expansion 
the holding company's already significant market power 
iri the Kalamazoo-Portage market. 
American National Holding Company, by virtue of the 
21 
A Per cent of the area's deposits which its present subsidiary 
bat*k holds, is already the second largest banking organization 
in 
a a market in which the four largest of the 15 banking organiza-
tions operating therein hold more than 81 per cent of the deposits. 
Although neither The American National Bank in Portage nor The 
^erican Bank of Three Rivers, N.A, holds more than 1 per cent 
0f fche area's total deposits, their removal as potential in-
Pendent competitors in this highly concentrated market is 
igaifleant, particularly when that removal is at the instance 
Of t-L 
n e second largest banking organization in the market. 
ummation of both proposed transactions would increase the 
eady undesirably high level of concentration of banking 
°urces in the area and would eliminate the possibility that 
e r The American National Bank in Portage or The American 
o f Three Rivers, N.A., would serve as a vehicle for foothold 
y into the area by other participants in the rapidly growing 
b<m bank holding company development. Such an alternative 
V°uld pi 
clearly be preferable from a competitive standpoint to 
Ppli 
Cant's present proposal. 

Considering both applications together and having 
voted to approve the Portage application, X find no public 
benefits flowing from the acquisition of the Three Rivers 
Bank by Applicant that would outweigh the adverse effect on 
competition in the Kalamazoo-Portage market that would be 
the consequence of approval of that application. I would 
deny the Three Rivers application. 

3865 
Item No. 10 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST ARKANSAS BANKSTOCK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of L. E. Lay & Company, Inc. 
First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation, Little Rock, Arkansas, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
*nd § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire voting shares 
0f 
E. Lay & Company, Inc., Little Rock, Arkansas ("Company"), a 
Company that engages in the activities of: (1) making or acquiring 
fo 
r its own account or for the account of others, real estate mortgage 
lo 
ans and servicing such loans; and (2) acting as an insurance agent or 
Stoker with respect to insurance that is directly related to an exten-
S 4 
n °f credit or provision of other financial services by Company. 
n 
activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related 
t0 the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), (3), and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
s°ns to submit comments and views on the public interest factors was 
Ut>Ushed (37 Federal Register 18496). Subsequently, Applicant amended 
Itg 
pplication so that the Board could consider the mortgage banking 
insurance agency activities of Company separately. Notice of the 
6ndcd application was published (37 Federal Register 2439). The 
time fn 
tor filing comments and views on both the original and amended 
*PPiic 
ation has expired, and the Board has considered all comments 
c a with respect to the mortgage banking activities of Company 
Itl tll 
e light of the public interest factors set forth in § 4(c)(8) of 
th* A 
c t (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)) and finds that: 

3866 
-3-
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Arkansas, 
controls three nonbanking subsidiaries which engage in equipment leas-
ing* owning and operating Applicant's business offices, and travel 
agency services.1/ Applicant controls three banks with aggregate 
deposits of $305 million, representing 8.1 per cent of the total 
deposits in commercial banks in the State.il/ Applicant's lead bank, 
w°rthen Bank and Trust Company, Little Rock, Arkansas ("Bank"), with 
deposits of $239.8 million, is the largest bank in the Little Rock 
banking market!/ and in Arkansas, controlling 30.1 per cent of com-
mercial bank deposits in the Little Rock banking market. Bank is 
en8aged in extending credit secured by real property through (1) perma-
nei*t mortgage loans on one-four family residential properties, (2) per-
manent mortgage loans on income producing properties, and (3) construc-
tl°a loans. 
Company engages in extending credit secured by real property 
trough (1) permanent mortgage loans on one-four family residential 
pr°Perties, (2) permanent mortgage loans on income producing proper-
tie8> and (3) construction loans. Company also engages in mortgage 
d i c i n g . Company is the 238th largest mortgage company in the nation 
*nd has six offices, three in Illinois, one in Texas, one in Louisiana 
one in Arkansas. Bank and Company compete for mortgage loan 
V 
Applicant acquired its travel agency business prior to June 30, 1971 
2 /
e e § 225.4(e) of Regulation Y). 
banking deposit and market data are as of June 30, 1972. 
SHSAThe U t t l e Rock Banking market is approximated by the Little Rock 
W h i c h includes Saline and Pulaski Counties. Pulaski County has 
pr°Kimately 90 per cent of the population in the Little Rock SMSA. 

386? 
-3-
business only in Pulaski County. Bank is the largest mortgage lender 
Pulaski County, with a mortgage loan volume of $25.6 million, 
accounting for 8.7 per cent of mortgages recorded in that County in 
Of Company's total mortgage servicing portfolio of $82.1 mil-
i j 
only $11.1 million is derived from Pulaski County, where it is 
•.I 
e third largest mortgage banking company accounting for 3.8 per cent 
of the mortgages recorded in the county in 1971. Consummation of 
Proposal will eliminate some existing competition between Bank and 
Coinpany in the mortgage banking business in Pulaski County; however, 
nei-ther Bank nor Company have a dominant position in that County. 
Th 
e r e are 60 mortgage lending and servicing competitors in the County 
Eluding the second, third and fourth largest banks in Arkansas. Also 
ent in the county are offices of the country's largest mortgage 
mPany, ancj offices of three other mortgage companies ranking in the 
&at to i 
n s top 100, which companies have aggregate annual mortgage 
ervicing volumes in excess of $4.2 billion. 
While some competition would be eliminated between Bank and 
in all areas of mortgage banking, the only significant amount 
c 
^Petition that would be eliminated is in the market for permanent 
Otl6"fo 
U r family residential mortgages. In this market Bank presently 
h°lds 2 „ 
Per cent of mortgages originated in Pulaski County and Company 
aces 4.5 per cent of such mortgages. Twenty-eight of the 60 
8e banking competitors in the market also originate permanent 
U r family residential mortgages. Due to the large number of 
c°rs in Pulaski County and the regional nature of Company's 

3868 
-3-
business, it is concluded that no significant existing competition would 
b e eliminated upon consummation of the proposed transaction.4/ Further, 
n o significant potential competition would be foreclosed upon approval 
o f the proposed transaction since it appears Company would have diffi-
Culty competing with other mortgage banking companies in the County 
Without the infusion of additional capital and greater access to finan-
cial markets. 
Moreover, whatever slight anticompetitive effects might result 
ftQjjj _ 
approval of this proposal are outweighed in the public interest by 
°ther considerations. Upon approval of this application, Applicant 
O L 
e s that it will purchase $250 thousand of Company's securities 
Pri°r to December 31, 1972, thereby significantly improving Company's 
structure. Acquisition of Company by Applicant will also likely 
Provide 
greater access to financial markets for Company and thereby 
I N ° R E A S A 
a-
e its amount of available funds to meet the growing credit 
d6Qlands fn^ u 
ror housing and other construction in the Little Rock area. 
cordin a t 
^ 
8ly, consummation of this proposal should enable Company to 
^ 
increased and improved services to its customers and increase 
0rnPetitive effectiveness. 
£ 
Oklahn^n , 
h G a P P l i c a t i o n 9 
First Tulsa Bancorporation, Inc., 
A u ^ l Recioh 
' ? U l r e H a U ^vestment Company, Tulsa, Oklahoma (37 
(3?Ust*, cfn ? r 
1 0 ) 5 a n d F i r S t R a i l r o a d & Banking Company of Georgia, 
S°U,thurn F i n a n C G C o rP o r a t i o n> Augusta, Georgia 
C t i o n 8 o^Bister 26472), neither mortgage company had significant 
C ^ ^ i o n ^ M T U 
f t e a ° f coraPetit:ive overlap, more existing mortgage 
a L T \ 
a V 6 b e e n f o r e c l o s ^ , and there were significantly fewer 
^rvicing and lending competitors in the relevant areas. 

5 
3869 
Company has been selling title insurance through Mortgage Title 
Agency, Inc., and has engaged in land development through World Wide Land 
Company. The Board has determined that land development is not a permis-
sible activity for bank holding companies. 
The Board has not yet 
determined whether the operation of a title insurance agency is a permis-
8ible activity for bank holding companies. Applicant has, however, agreed 
to immediately divest both Mortgage Title Agency, Inc., and World Wide 
^and Company, upon consummation of this transaction. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
tho 
Ie record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
£a«ors the Board iS required to consider under , 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
A 
c°rdingly, the application to engage solely in Company's mortgage bank-
in8 business is hereby approved. This determination is subject to the 
Editions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's 
authority to require such modification or termination of the activities 
* a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds neces-
to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and 
s regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion 
th* Board1 
th<*eof. 
By order of the Board of Governors, £/ effective December 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
{SEAL] 
t
r
^
— 
? aPPUcation of UB Financial Corp., Phoenix, Arizona, to retain H.S. 
5/ v ® 1 1 Company, Phoenix, Arizona (37 Federal Register 6794). 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Sheehan, 
Voti ' V o t l n 8 against this action: Governor Robertson. Absent and 
Governors Daane and Brimmer. 
Tynan Smith, 
Secretary of the Board 

3870 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I would deny this application since, in my opinion, approval 
wUl eliminate significant existing and potential competition. 
Applicant, through its lead bank, is both the largest banking 
0rSani2ation and the largest mortgage lender in Pulaski County. Company 
is ^ e third largest mortgage banking company in that County. Upon 
aPproval, Applicant will increase its share of the permanent one-four 
mily residential mortgages from 2.0 per cent to 6.5 per cent and 
herebV eliminate a significant amount of existing competition. 
Approval will also have an adverse effect on potential compe-
Uti 
°n- Mortgage lending in Pulaski County has increased 75.7 per cent 
01 *970 to 1971. Company will no longer be an independent alternative 
Inpetitor for mortgage lending and servicing business in an area where 
businss is currently expanding. Accordingly, significant potential 
GtJ-tion will be foreclosed upon approval of this application. 
A majority of the Board believes that the anticompetitive effects 
acq 
0 f 
th e acquisition are outweighed in the public interest since Applicant 
provide Company with additional capital and increased access to finan-
cial 
Markets. It has not been demonstrated that less anticompetitive 
lative sources for additional capital and access to financial markets 
*** Un 
Mailable to Company. In my judgment, such public benefits do not 
X e i 
^ 
the adverse competitive effects of the acquisition and, therefore, 
dl88ent. 
r 
1972 

Or 
Item No. 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST OKLAHOMA BANCORPORATION, INC. 
"Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect 
to Nonbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 
Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the 
Bar*k Holding Company Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a 
c°mPany covered in 1970" may continue to engage, either directly 
°r trough a subsidiary, in nonbanking activities that such company 
Vas lawfully engaged in on June 30, 1968 (or on a date subsequent 
to June 30, 1968, in the case of activities carried on as a result 
f the acquisition by such company or subsidiary, pursuant to a 
illciing written contract entered into on or before June 30, 1968, 
of a 
another company engaged in such activities at the time of the 
quisition), and has been continuously engaged in since June 30, 
l968 ( 
such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such 
^father privileges if, having due regard to the purposes of the 
Act, t. 
Board determines that such action is necessary to prevent 
concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, 
cts of interest, or unsound banking practices. With respect 
t oa c°mpany that controls a bank with assets in excess of $60 
n °n or after December 31, 1970, the Board is required to make 
a ri 
Qetermination within a two year period. 

Notice of the Board's proposed review of any grandfather 
Privileges of First Oklahom Bancorporation, Inc., Oklahoma City, 
Oklahoma, and an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views or request a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414 and 
^5204). The time for filing comments, views, and requests has 
expired, and all those received have been considered by the Board 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
The facts before the Board show that First Oklahoma 
incorporation, Inc., Oklahoma City, Oklahoma ("Registrant"), became 
a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of the 1970 
A*endments to the Act, by virtue of Registrant's ownership of more 
than 50 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of The First 
National Bank and Trust Company of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma City, 
°klahoma ("Bank") (assets of $567 million as of December 31, 1970). 
Hovever, the Board's review of Registrant further shows that 
Registrant does not constitute a "company covered in 1970" as defined 
tn § 2(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act. Section 2(b) of the 
A c t defines "company covered in 1970" as a "company which becomes a 
b a t* holding company as a result of the enactment of the Bank Holding 
ComPany Act Amendments of 1970 and which would have been a bank 
hoIding company on June 30, 1963, if those amendments had been 
*nacted on that date." 
R e g i s t r a n t was already a registered multi-bank 
h°Xding company on June 30, 1 9 6 3 a n d the enactment of the 1970 
l a m e n t s on June 30, 1968 would not have caused R e g i s t r a n t to 
b e C o me a bank holding company nor altered R e g i s t r a n t ' s status under 

3373 
I 
r 
die Act. On this basis, the Board concludes that Registrant does not 
within the definition of a "company covered in 1970", that 
ReBistrant is not eligible for grandfather benfits, and that the 
^'esticn of termination of grandfather privileges, under the proviso 
i n ^ 4(a)(2) of the Act, is moot. 
The conclusion contained herein is limited to the matter of 
4 °S-?sicrant \s entitlement to "grandfather" privileges and the subject 
cf termination under the proviso in § 4(a)(2) 0f the Act; and does 
V 
-
- affect: any authority thai: Registrant; may have 4;o engage in non-
activities pursuant to other provisions of the Bank Holding 
Cf*-
Act, or pursuant to Board approval oi an application. 
Tjoard of, Governor a, January 10 > 1973, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
acqy,-"' 
b e c n i n c a 
ti~bank holding company on January a, 1963 , vhc,n 
J;1"? rnorc l,uin 5 0 Pcl c-n!: of the voting shares of Bank and of !ha 
]'ank> I^bel. Oklahoma, pursuant to the Board's order of 
P * Ixitl 
9 
( 1 9 6 2 l i n e a r Reserve Bulletin 160S). Registrant sold 
h°ldinf, 
S t 1,1 ^abel 
on Septenber 27, 1963, and ceased to >o a ban-
b company as then defined. 

3874 
BOARD OF G OVER N • R5 
I t e m No • 1 3 
• p the 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N 
D E N C E 
T A 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 10, 1973 
First Oklahoma Bancorporation, Inc. 
First National Building 
120 North Robinson 
Post Office Box 25189 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
73125 
Gentlemen: 
Enclosed for your information is a copy of a notice 
Issued by the Board for publication in the Federal Register and 
Relating to the status of your company with respect to the 
grandfather" proviso in § 4(a)(2) of the Bank Holding Company 
ct> as amended, on the subject of authority to continue non-
banking activities. 
In taking this action, the Board indicated that it 
*as n°t ruling on whether the nonbanking activities now betas 
conductc-d by First Oklahoma Bancorporation may be conducted 
under authority of other provisions of the Bank Holding Company 
ct. For example, some activities may be authorized on the 
sis of a Board order issued in the past granting approval; 
°me may be authorized under § 4(c)(5) of the Act and the 
Andrd'S R GS u l a t i°n Y (225.4(e)) or under § 4(c)(6) of the Act. 
4 > of course, an application appropriately may be filed, pursuant 
§ 4(c)(8) of the Act, for Board approval to continue to engage 
C r
 act;ivi ties regarded as closely related to banking or managing 
^ ccntrolling banks within the meaning of § 225.4(a) of the Board's 
serv^ati0n 
However, your attention is directed to the fact that 
a ,.lces to banks outside the holding company system, in the nature of 
G t c
I t : i n8 °f banks or counseling on operations, taxes, loan portfolio, 
te]'' ^ a v e n o t D e e n placed bv the Board on the "permissible" cr "closely 
*ated" list (i.e. § 225.4(a) of Regulation Y). 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Closures 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3 8 »! o 
Item No. 14 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ALASKA BANCSHARES, INC. 
Determination Regarding "Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect 
to nonbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amend-
ments to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding 
CoiT»pany Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 1970" 
®ay continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, in non-
banking activities that such company x*as lawfully engaged in on June 30, 
(or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of activities 
Carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company or subsidiary, 
pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on or before June 30, 
of another company engaged in such activities at the time of the 
C<luisition), and has been continously engaged in since June 30, 1968 
(or such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the 
J 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such 
atl(lfather privileges if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, 
B°ard determines that such action is necessary to prevent undue con-
a t i o n of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of 
sts> or unsound banking practices. With respect to a company that 
X s a bank with assets of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
—ard l s required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

3876 
-3-
Notice of the Board's proposed review of the grandfather 
privilegeS of Alaska Bancshares, Inc., Anchorage, Alaska, and an 
°PPortunity for interested persons to submit comments and views or 
te^uest a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414). The time for filing 
Coinnients, views, and requests has expired, and all those received have 
beei* considered by the Board in light of the factors set forth in 5 4(a)(2) 
°f the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following findings. 
Alaak 
1/ 
K a Bancshares, Inc.,— 
Anchorage, Alaska ("Registrant"), became a 
Vi 
Holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of the 1970 Amend-
ments t 
c o the Act, by virtue of Registrant's ownership of approximately 50 
Pet 
C e n t 
the voting shares of Alaska State Bank, Anchorage, Alaska ("Bank") 
L3 of $66 million as of December 31, 1970). Bank, which became a 
8Ubsid. 
ary of Registrant in 1962, had total deposits of approximately $62 
M U i 0 n 
1 9 8 of December 31, 1971, representing about 9-1/2 per cent of the 
ePosits in the State and giving Bank a rank of third in the State. 
V k « 8 
offices in Anchorage and Fairbanks rank fourth and third, respectively, 
e banks in each of these cities. Bank is not regarded as one of the 
J* theS^a Banc°rporation, Anchorage, Alaska, which owns over 65 per cent 
shares of Alaska Bancshares, became a bank holding company 
i
p
6 
° f t h e 1 9 7 0 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. However, 
j 
t> 
• « .w«-ii«iuv.iiua ww 
uuun, tiuxuxu(3 uwmpau/ n-v-u . nuwcVI 
antftre3t
a?Corporat:ion w a s incorporated on July 16, 1969 and acquired its 
tilted in A l a s k a bancshares on August 5, 1969. Alaska Bancorporation 
An C 
P e r c e n t o f t h e v°tlng shares of Alaska North Slope Oil Company, 
nor flora A1««U„ 
T..1.. 1 Q men 
. 
^ n
 
a 8 e» Alaska, on July 18, 1969. Alaska Bancorporation neither 
o r is entitled to grandfather benefits. 

3377 
-3-
do*inant financial institutions in the State but is a significant com-
petitor. While Bank's present financial condition appears to be satisfactory, 
the 
evidence of record in this case points to areas of legitimate concern 
nv°lving practices of Registrant's management that have potential for 
^Pairing Bank's financial condition. Exemplifying one action of management 
that i q * 
i a ot concern to the Board is the relationship that exists between Bank 
a subsidiary of Alaska Bancorporation (parent of Registrant) and North 
°Pe Oil Company, Inc., also a subsidiary of Alaska Bancorporation, a rela-
°nshiP t h a t m l g h t l e a d t Q f i n a n ci ai difficulties for the Bank through the 
o f Bank's resources to further the interests of the North Slope venture. 
8istrant has no grandfather benefits with respect to the North Slope activity 
*nd> in view of the aforesaid adverse aspects of Bank's and Registrant's 
teiatl 
nships with North Slope, Registrant is urged to take steps to terminate 
affiliation with North Slope at the earliest practicable time. 
Registrant engages directly in real estate development, insurance 
activities, mortgage financing, and acts as investment adviser and 
er*t consultant to Bank. On the basis of the facts presented, these 
*ctlnti. 
es were commenced before June 30, 1968 and have been conducted con-
tlnu°usi 
y since that date. Registrant's investment adviser and management 
lc and adviser services appear to be limited exclusively to Bank; on 
h*3 K 
these activities appear to be exempt, under § 4(c)(1)(C), from 
ierai prohibitions of § 4 of the Act. Through Bank's 100 per cent owned 
ary (Alaska State Bank Building Corporation, Anchorage, Alaska), Reels-
V 
n 
^ 
° real property used principally by Bank, an activity that appears 
XeciPt under § 4(c)(1)(A) of the Act. 

3378 
-3-
Registrant's nonbanking activities, for which grandfather 
Privileges seem applicable, appear to be limited in scope and not to affect 
si§nificantly 
the market position of Bank. The real estate development 
activities consist of holding property in two subdivisions near Anchorage 
a book value of $48,000. The insurance agency and mortgage financing 
activities apparently produced gross income of $16,000 and $2,800, respec-
tively, during the first half of 1972. These grandfathered activities of 
Sistrant do not now evidence an undue concentration of resources nor 
Creased or unfair competition. On the other hand, the Board is concerned 
°ut Registrant's management, about the unhealthy debt position of Registrant 
LS parent organization, and about the burdensome aspect of Registrant's 
^ere^t-
8 C commitments, particularly in the light of Registrant's reported 
cash income (as reported for calendar years 1970 and 1971), which 
^Pears t- u 
to be short for servicing Registrant's debt. Because the nonbank 
*-nered activities apparently have not affected the Bank in any 
n t adverse respect; and since 38 per cent of Registrant's income 
detlves f 
o m said nonbanking activities, so that measures looking to a 
ent of Registrant's nonbanking grandfathered activities might have 
adver 
S e effect on Bank and might tend to weaken Registrant's financial 
> Che Board has concluded that, at this time, Registrant should not 
e d to relinquish its grandfather privileges. However, Registrant's 
estate 
b 
activities are limited to the two subdivisions now owned. Also 
8lat*ant * 
J-s urged to take immediate and effective steps to improve its 
condition and its management and to avoid any pressure on the Bank 
n 
V l a l 

3879 
-5-
tn 
pay out excessive dividends or engage in any other unsound banking 
Practice. And Applicant is alerted to the intent of the Board to require 
termination of grandfather benefits if it determines that such action is 
necessary to prevent unsound banking practices (or any of the other evils 
described in the Act). 
It is the Board's judgment that, at this time, termination of 
the grandfather privileges of Registrant is not necessary in order to pre-
an undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, 
°nflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. Hox^ever, this deter-
mtt 
^inan 
is not authority to enter into any activity that was not engaged 
June 30, 1968 and continuously thereafter, or any activity that is 
n°t th 
Lne subject of this determination. 
A significant alteration in the nature or extension of Registrant's 
iies 
tivities or a change in location thereof (significantly different from 
scribed in this determination) will be cause for a re-evaluation by the 
rd 
Act 
o f Registrant's activities under the provisions of <5 4(a)(2) of the 
that isj whenever the alteration or change is such that the Board finds 
that a 
termination of the grandfather privileges is necessary to prevent 
U e concentration of resources or any of the other evils designated 
in the A 
Act. No merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets other than in 
the „ . 
rdi n 
j-nary course of business, nor acquisition of any interest in a 
c °ncern, to which the Registrant or any nonbank subsidiary thereof 
a 
Party9 m a y b e c o n s u m m a t : ed without prior approval of the Board. Further, 
6 h V i s i°n of any credit, property, or service by the Registrant or any 

„ 3&£ 
- 6 -
subsidiary thereof shall not be subject to any condition which, if imposed 
by a bank, would constitute an unlawful tie-in arrangement under § 106 of 
Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
The determination herein does not preclude a later review, by 
tlle Board, of Registrant's nonbank activities and a future determination by 
Board in favor of termination of grandfather benefits of Registrant. 
determination herein is subject to the Board's authority to require 
Modification or termination of the activities of Registrant or any of its 
b a n k i n g subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
^th the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
°r<ters issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof. 
2/ 
By determination of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 29, 
1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL! 
— 
n°tinS for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
e» Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

• t P i f o M s : 
O^TCJ-
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R 5 
12/26/72 1 5 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
• 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 2, 1973 
Mr. Richard A. Gross 
Vice President and Secretary 
Houston National Company 
Tenneco Building 
^010 Milam Street 
P- 0. Box 1108 
Houston, Texas 
77001 
Dear Mr. Gross: 
The Board has considered the claim appearing in the registration 
statement of Houston National Company, parent of Houston National Bank, 
that Houston National Company "believes it is entitled to be treated as a 
successor' as defined in § 2(e) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 19.56, 
a s amended, because all of the non-banking assets owned by Registrant were 
by Registrant's predecessor prior to June 30, 1968, and either 
^-gistrant or its predecessor has been engaged in such non-banking activi-
ties continuously since June 30, 1963." 
(The predecessor referred to is 
fenneco Inc.) The question arises in connection with the Board's review 
grandfathered activities of bank holding companies, pursuant to the 
Proviso of section 4(a)(2) of the Act, to determine whether to require 
a termination of such activities. 
Section 2(a)(6) of the Act provides: "For the purposes of this 
, c t, any successor to a bank holding company shall be deemed to be a bank 
^•ding comoany from the date on which the predecessor company became a 
ank hold ing company." "Successor" is defined in section 2(e) of the Act, 
a s foil ows: 
"The term 'succassor' shall include any company which 
acquires directly or indirectly from a bank holding company 
shares of any bank, when and if the relationship between such 
company and the bank holding is such that the transaction 
effects no substantial change in the control of the bank or 
beneficial ownership of such shares of such bank. The Board 
may, by regulation, further define the term 'successor' to 
the extent necessary to prevent evasion of the purposes of 
this Act." 

Mr. Richard A. Gross 
- 2 - 
. 3 3 S 
The Board understands that the Act was intended to cover successor 
organizations "in order to preclude the possibility that a bank holding 
company might escape regulation simply by transferring bank stocks to some 
other organization which would not itself technically fall within the defi-
nition." See the testimony of William McChesney Martin, then Chairman of 
the Board of Governors, before a Senate committee (Hearings Before the 
Agnate Committee on Banking and Currency on S. 76 and S. 1118, 83rd Cong., 
1st Sess. (1953), p. 15); and see also the testimony of J. L. Robertson, 
as a member of the Board of Governors, before a House committee (Hearings 
j^rore the House Committee on Banking and Currency on H.R. 6504, 82nd Cong., 
Sess. (1952), p. 22). 
i( 
It is the Board's conclusion that Houston National Company is not 
a successor" company within the meaning of that term as defined in the Act. 
ouston National Company was organized in December, 1968. The shares of 
ouston National Bank acquired by Houston National Company in December, 1968, 
rom Tenneco Inc. were not acquired from a bank holding company because 
enneco Inc. did not become a "bank holding company," as defined in the Act, 
^til December 31, 1970. To construe the definition of "successor" to apply 
t the transferor company, though not a bank holding company as defined in 
Act at the time of the transfer, subsequently becomes a bank holding 
Company is contrary to the plain language of the statute and has no support 
n the legislative history of the Act. 
^ 
The Board believes that the above analysis is dispositive of the 
sue. However, the Board also notes that Houston National Company has not 
Produced evidence to establish that, as required by the definition cf 
Successor," the transaction between Houston National Company and Tenneco 
tpcted "no substantial change in the control of the bank or beneficial 
^jnership of such shares" of Houston National Bank. The Board does not 
Sard this requirement as being satisfied by the fact merely that Tenneco 
quired 40 per cent of the shares of Houston National Company in exchange 
r 40 per cent 0f the shares of Houston National Bank. 
>j . 
On the basis of the evidence before it, the Board regards Houston 
•j^^nai Company as being neither a 'successor" nor a "company covered in 
jj" u as those terms are defined in section 2 of the Act. Accordingly, 
National Company is not entitled to any grandfather privileges 
Lhin the meaning cf che proviso in section 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

3883 
B D A R D 
OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 16 
/ ^ O ^ O V . N . 
OF T H E 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
sfci^-'rtV'^tJM^' 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2055? 
A
'
Y
W
A
*
^ 
* 
A D D R E S S ornciAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
. 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 8, 1973 
« 
I 
Mr- George C. Cochran, III 
' 
Assistant Vice President 
federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
Dear Hr. Cochran: 
The Board recently decided that Houston National Company, 
Iouston, Texas, is not entitled to "grandfather" privileges under the 
proviso in § 4(a)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended. A 
c°Py of the Board's notice reflecting this action, together with a 
copy 0f t]ie letter t 0 Houston National Company informing it oi: the 
°ard's decision, was sent to you on January 2. 19/3. 
Tn taking the above action, the Board directed that: tbe. Federal 
vf?serve Bank of Dallas should review the status of Tenneco, Inc., under 
Bank Holding Company Act. If Tenneco, contrary tc its allegation, 
3 
divested "control" of Houston National Bank, Tenneco may remain 
^Bank holding company. In this event, of course, it is possible that 
•Rneco may be entitled to "grandfather" privileges under § 4(a)(2) of 
e Bank Holding Company Act. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

QQfVJ 
B D A R D 
GOVERNORS 
I t e m No# 
17 
• 
O F T H E 
1 2 / 2 6 / 7 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
! 
mmm^ 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
' • ^ T R E S ^ - 
• * 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 27, 1972 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 21, 1972, the Board 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("FNCOIC'')3 to 
Purchase and hold up to 75 per cent of the shares of a finance com-
pany to be formed in Trinidad and Tobaeo, <"'TFC") at a cost of 
approximately TT$1,125,000 (about $619^000), provided the shares 
re acquired within one year from the date of this letter and 
continue to hold such shares after TFC issues and has outstanding 
. f"i S> t i o n s w i t h maturities in excess of one year up to * total 
^>10,000,000 (about $5,500,000). 
o f
 
T h e Board's consent to the proposed purchase and hold*iv> 
shares of TFC by FKCOIC is granted subject to the followirp cor-
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in TFC if TFC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase' 
and hold stock, or if TFC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Trinidad and Tobago or elsewhere, in any 
nianner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to FKCOIC; 
('-) That, wh?.n required by the Beard of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of TFC as it may require from time to 
time; 

First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
3385 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by TFC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if TFC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That TFC confine its insurance activities to the 
types permitted by Section 225.4(a)(9) of Regu-
lation Y. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by TFC in Trinidad 
and Tobago in the currency of that country. 
It is understood that TFC may issue credit cards in 
Trinidad and Tobago but will not issue such cards to residents of 
the United States which could be utilized in the United States. 
A1-so, as requested in your letter, in view of the special circum-
stances c-f this case, the Board grants its consent for TFC to per-
form general warehouse services in Trinidad and Tobago. 
You have requested consent fcr TFC to engage in the busi-
" e s s o f underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board's consent 
£ such activities i.s conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining 
prior consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares 
TFC should TFC acquire stock of individual issuers costing in 
x-ess of $500,000 or representing 25 per cent of the voting shares 
" any company, except in the case of underwriting operations covered 
^ firm commitments from subunderwriters or other purchasers. With 
spect to trading in securities in which Corporations arc prohibited 
investing by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of Sec-
th°U 
tlle F e c l c r a l Reserve Act, the Board's consent is fur-
e r conditioned on the fact that TFC will acquire such shares only 
s dealer or underwriter, maintain a size and turnover of inventory 
is reasonable in relation to demand, and dispose of such shares 
^thin a reasonable t :ime 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
rePorted under Section 211..3(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the uac« 
qu°AlUs^tion, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
• fested by the Board. 

i'irst National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-3-
3SQ6 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the^Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of TFC. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 10 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TENNESSEE HOMESTEAD COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank Shares 
Tennessee Homestead Company, Ogden, Utah ("THC"), a 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to consolidate Budget Finance 
c°nipany, Jonathan Edmund Browning Corporation, and Frank M. Browning, 
Incorporated ("Subsidiaries") into THC and thereby to acquire direct 
ownership of additional shares of Bank of Utah and Bank of Ben Lomond, 
k°th of Ogden, Utah, which additional shares are presently indirectly 
h*id by THC through the Subsidiaries. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
erested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
ici 
Accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
a(1 views has expired, and the Board has considered the applications 
ad a U comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3<c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant presently controls one bank (Bank of Utah, 
°8det*> Utah) with deposits of about $32 million.I/ This bank is 
c°iled by THC through its direct ownership of approximately 
per cent of the voting stock of Bank of Utah and through 

- 2 
3868 
the Subsidiaries, which together own an additional 36 per cent 
°f the shares of Bank of Utah. THC also directly holds 6.20 
Per cent of the shares of Bank of Ben Lomond, Ogden, Utah, 
with deposits of approximately $7 million. The Subsidiaries 
together hold an additional 12.31 per cent of the shares of 
that bank. The proposal by THC to merge Subsidiaries into 
itself is essentially a corporate reorganization and would 
have no effect on existing or future competition. The Board 
concludes that competitive considerations are consistent with 
approval of the applications. 
The financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary bank are generally 
8atisfactory and consistent with approval of the applications, 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
immunities to be served are also consistent with approval 
o f the application. The Board finds that the proposed applica-
tloas are consistent with the public interest and should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are 
aPproved for the reasons summarized above. The transactions 
sllaU not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the effective date of this Order or (b) later 
tK 
a n three months after the effective date of this Order, 

3Q8e3 
-3-
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to 
^legated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective December 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
j r 7 — , 
^ i t l ^ n 8 f°r t H i S a c t l o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Govo 
' D a a n e> Brimmer and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
vernor Bucher. 

" o 
BOARD Dr G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m 
^ 1 9 
OF T H E 
12/26/72 
[ m p ^ - 
F E D E R A L RESERVE BY ST E M 
.^-'V:i S*. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
.V: ';. f? f (e r •, .. ! H . 
'I^X'R*^ 
'-> ' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 27, 1972 
air MAIL - REGISTERED 
keturn reck'j pt" reques'ted 
Tennessee Homestead Company 
2651 
Washington Bou1evard 
Ogden, Utah 84401 
Dear Sirs: 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Board's Regulation Y 
(§ 225.2(c)), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has made a preliminary determination that Tennessee Homestead Company 
("THC") exercises a controlling influence over the management and 
Policies of both Bank of Ben Lomond, Ogden, Utah, and Bank of Northern 
^".ah, Clearfield, Utah. The determination is based on the existence of 
t;he fo]. 1 c';?ing facts: 
1. THC owns, directly or indirectly, more than 5 per cent 
the voting securities o«: Bank of Bert Lomond; one or more of Che 
R e c t o r s or officers of THC serve as directors, officers or employees 
'*ith policy-making functions with Bank of Ben Lomond. 
2. THC is the largest single stockholder in Bank of Ben 
Lomond, holding approximately 18.5 per cent of the outstanding shares 
o f f-bcif bank. 
3. The directors of THC own or control an additional 6 per 
cent; of the shares of Bank of Ben Lomond. 
4. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of THC serves 
the president of Bank of Ben Lomond. 
5. THC owns 24 per cent of the shares of Bank of Northern 
tah; directors and officers of THC own an additional 31.2 per cent 
°r ,chc shares of that bank. 

3891 
Tennessee Homestead Company 
-2-
As required by Regulation Y (§ 225.2(c)), THC must, within 
thirty days, notify the Board (1) whether THC will terminate these 
control relationships or (2) whether it agrees with the preliminary 
determination and will comply with all requirements of Federal bank-
ing law in a manner consistent with the subsidiary status of the said 
two banks, or (3) of the basis on which it wishes to contest the 
Board's preliminary determination that THC exercises a controlling 
influence with respect to said two banks. A copy of the Board's 
Regulation Y is enclosed for your information. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

3892 
Item No. 20 
12/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MIDWEST BANK SHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Midwest Bank Shares, Inc., Moline, Illinois, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through acquisition of 
per cent or more of the voting shares of The De Witt County National 
Bank of Clinton, Clinton, Illinois ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P^sons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
* 3(b) 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
^ e Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
o f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant was organized in 1971 for the primary purpose of be-
t i n g a bank holding company with respect to Bank. However, since 
its formation, Applicant has been engaged in offering various services to 
Certain associated banks (discussed hereinafter). As Applicant does not 
any banking subsidiaries at this time, this transaction would eliminate 
Either existing nor potential competition. 
Bank ($12.6 million in deposits), located in the city of Clinton, 
ois ( 
b*nks 
IlUnoi3 (population approximately 7,800), is the third largest of four 
in De Witt County and controls 28.6 per cent of total commercial 
^Positg i n t h e countpy and 0.03 per cent of total commercial deposits 
in the S t a t e . I n view of the above, the Board concludes that consummation 
not have an adverse effect on any other banking institution or 
^ 
^^deposit data are as of June 30, 1972. 

- 3 -
3893 
result in the concentration of banking resources in any relevant area. It 
also appears that community needs for banking services are presently being 
served and that approval of this proposal would have no immediate effect 
thereon; howeverv improvements anticipated under Applicant's management 
would enhance Bank's ability to meet the future needs and convenience of 
the community. 
Bank is in less than satisfactory financial condition notwithstand-
2/ 
ing recent improvements achieved through new management and ownership, 
and 
the injection of additional capital funds; however, Bank has favorable 
prospects under its present management which is believed to be capable. 
Applicant's financial condition and management are considered satisfactory 
and future prospects are most favorable. However, these projections are 
dependent upon Applicant's cpntinuation of its present "non-banking" 
activities for a t-w0 year period. During this time, income largely derived 
from these activities would be used to: reduce the initial acquisition debt 
to a level serviceable without income from the activities to be discontinued. 
(The acquisition debt of $140,000 is scheduled to be repaid in semi-annual 
payments over a period of five years; an analysis of Applicant's earnings 
statement appears to support Applicant's ability to service the debt.) 
2/ Applicant's Chairman, individually, acquired 30.36 per cent of the stock 
of Bank in 1971 with the support of the Regional Administrator of National 
Banks as a salvage move. Applicant was organized to acquire 29.36 per cent 
of these shares by several career bankers who are associated as officers 
and/or directors in one or more of seventeen banks (including Bank), all 
located in the northern half of Illinois and one bank located in eastern 
Iowa, and who refer to themselves as the "Midwest Associated Banks of 
America." These banks are a substantial distance from Bank (the nearest is 
60 miles away) and it appears unlikely that their respective service areas 
would overlap with the service area of Bank. Members of this banking chain 
have through the years shared in the services which are now being offered 
through Applicant. These management services furnished to client banks for 
a fee include examination of banks, insurance reviews, tax preparation, and 
the supervision of "distaster preparedness" programs. 

.. 38S4 
-3-
In view of Bank's past operating difficulties and present less than 
satisfactory condition, it is imperative that Bank's ownership be vested 
in an entity with demonstrated financial and managerial strength. The 
Board is of the opinion 'hat Applicant has demonstrated both its ability 
and willingness to provide Bank with the leadership and resources required 
to return it to a viable condition. Therefore, banking factors lend 
substantial weight toward approval of this application. 
As described in footnote #2 above, Applicant furnishes management 
services to non-subsidiary banks, these services are not activities that 
the Board has at present determined to be permissible activities for bank 
holding companies within the statutory criteria set forth in section 4(c)(8) 
of the Act. Applicant, however, has committed itself to discontinue such 
activities within two years from the date of the Board's approval of thi6 
application. While the Board would normally regard the combination of 
banking and impermissible non-banking activities, even for a period as short 
as two years, as an adverse factor in its consideration of an application, 
under the circumstances of this case such a combination 6or this limited 
period would be consistent with the public interest. Accordingly, unless 
the Board shall, prior to two years from the date of this order, determine 
that the management services presently coriducted by Applicant are permissible 
for bank holding companies under section 4(c)(8) of the Act, or are otherwise 
permissible, Applicant shall, as a condition of the approval of this 
application, discontinue such activities. 

38S5 
-4-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
If 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Daane, Brimmer and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE 
S E R V I C E 
Item No. 10 
12/26/72 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
December 27, 1972 
Winn - Cleveland 
The Cleveland Reserve Bank is authorized to proceed with 
the sale of the old Cincinnati Branch building at a price 
of $1.2 million. 
(Signed) Michael A, Greenspan 
Greenspan 

ir if- i n - IB -a s 
if X 
if 
\ T T 
I 
/ . 
> • 
' f 
?t. Us 
i t 
. 
t 
i K > 
i t . 
; 
. ! 
! 
- . 
x;!^..-.. .. 
. i:-^ vfrrn'f 'i'Jt: f 
J', • — 
. 
,7i'V-
.... 
•wnc^-
For "immediate release 
December 26, 1972 
Item No. 22 
12/26/72 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today its findings with respect to grandfather privileges of 
30 companies -- each with $60 million or more in bank assets 
thus 
far reviewed under the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
The Board found that none of the 30 companies is entitled to 
grandfather privileges. In most of the cases, the companies were 
engaged only in banking activities as of the grandfather date --
June 30, 1.968, In 12 cases, the Board found that none of the companies 
was engaged in nonbanking activities other than activities that appear 
to be permitted under provisions of the Act -- such as bank premises 
corporations and safe deposit businesses. 
In certain circumstances, the 19/0 amendments to the Bank 
Holding Company Act permit one-bank holding companies -- and other 
companies that became subject to the Act by virtue of those amend-
ments -- to continue to engage in nonbanking activities that they 
acquired on or before June 30, 1968. The Board may determine 
whether such companies should divest any grandfathered activities, 
as "necessary to prevent undue concentration of resources, decreased 
or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking 
practices •...11 
As directed by the statute, the Board has undertaken a 
revlev: of 66 companies that became subject to the Act by virtue of 
the 1970 amendments and controlled a bank with assets iu execss of 
$60 Million on December 31. 1970. Additional findings in this review 
will be announced later. 
Copier f>i the Board' u notices * ••' lat:ing to these matters arc 

O O j u 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
"Grandfather Privileges" 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
provides certain privileges ("grandfather privileges") with respect 
to nonbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amend-
ments to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Hold-
ing Company Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered 
In 1970" may continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, 
in nonbanking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on 
June 30, 1968 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of 
activities carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company 
or subsidiaryj pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on 
or before June 30, 1968, of another company engaged in such activities 
at the time of the acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in 
since June 30, 1968 (or such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
Privileges if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
determines that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentration 
of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
or unsound banking practices, mth respect to a company that controls a 
bank with assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
t h° B° a r d l s 
t o 
such « determination within a two year period 

3839 
- 3 -
Notice of the Board's review of nonbank activities and the 
grandfather privileges of the companies listed below and opportunity 
for interested persons to submit comments and views or request a 
hearing, has been given. 
Sumitomo Bank, Ltd., Osaka, Japan (37 F.R. 21382) 
Hopeton Holding Corp., Wilmington, Del. (37 F.R. 21382) 
Financial Investments Corp., Chicago, 111. (37 F.R. 21332) 
First National Bank of Cicero Corp., Oak Park, 111. (37 F.R. 21382) 
Investment Securities Corp., Lexington, Ky. (37 F„R. 21382) 
Tennessee Shares Corp., Cheverly, Md. (37 F.R. 21382) 
Independent Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minn. (37 F.R. 21382) 
Mercantile Commerce Co., St. Louisv Mo. (37 F.R, 21382) 
Barclay's Bank, Ltd., London, England (37 F.R. 21382) 
Royal Bank of Canada, Montreal, Canada (37 F.R. 21382) 
Industrial Bank of Japan, Ltd., Tckvo, Japan (37 F.R. 21382.) 
U T Securities Corp., New York, N. Y. (37 ]<\r. 21332) 
Southeastern Shares Corp., New York, W* Y, (37 F.R. 21382) 
National Bank of Greece, S.A., Athens, Greece (37 F.R. 21382) 
Financial General Corp., Richmond, Va. (37 F.R. 21382) 
Coronado Financial Corporation, Kansas City, Mo. (37 F.R. 22414) 
Columbia Union. Bancshares, Kansas City, Mo. (37 F.R. 22414) 
Bankshares of Indiana, Inc., Merrilivilles Ind. (formerlv 
Indiana Industries, Inc., Gary, Ind.) (37 F.R. 22414) 
"i'he time for filing comments and views and requests has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board in the light of the factors 
set. forth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
On the basis of the evidence before It, the Board finds that none 
of the companies named hereinabove is entitled to grandfather privileges 
Within the meaning of the proviso in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, December 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
ism,) 

3300 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
"Grandfather Privileges" 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
provides certain privileges ("grandfather privileges") with respect to 
nonbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amendments 
to the Bank Holding Company Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding 
Company Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 
1970" may continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, 
in nonbanking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on 
June 30, 1968 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of 
activities carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company or 
subsidiary, pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on or 
before June 30, 1968, of another company engaged in such activities at 
the time of the acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in since 
June 30, 1968 (or such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Beard 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
privileges if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
determines that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentration, 
of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
or unsound banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a 
bank v/ith assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, .1.970, 
the* Hoard is required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

C.J •J'JFC 
-3-
Notice of the Board's review of nonbank activities and 
grandfather privileges of the companies listed below and opportunity 
for interested persons to submit comments and views or request a 
hearing, has been given. 
Frank P. Doyle Trust, Article IX, Santa Rosa, Calif. (37 F.R. 21332) 
Potomac Securities Corp., Silver Spring, Md. (37 F.R. 21382) 
International Equities, Inc., New York, N. Y. (37 F.R. 21382) 
Alexandria Shares Corp., Alexandria, Va. (37 F.R. 21382) 
Virginia Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Va. (37 F.R. 21382) 
Marine Bancorporation, Seattle, Washington (37 F.R* 21382) 
The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, 
Hong Kong (37 F.R. 22414) 
First Bancorporation, Reno, Nevada (37 F.R. 22414) 
Amalgamated Associates Company, Chicago, 111. (37 F.R. 22414) 
Amalgamated Investments Company, Chicago, 111. (37 F.R. 22414) 
First Highland Corp.. Highland Park, 111., (37 F.R. 22414) 
Financial Network Corp., Milwaukee, Wise. (37 F.R. 22414) 
The time for filing comments and views and requests has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board in the light of the 
factors set forth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
On the basis of the evidence before it, the Board finds that 
none of the companies named hereinabove, directly or indirectly, engaged 
on or before June 30, 1968, in nonbanking activities within the meaning 
of § 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act, other them nonbanking activities 
.
.
. 
. 
that appear to be exempt under the provisions of § 4(c.) of the Act. 
On this basis, no grandfather privileges under the proviso in § 4(a)(2) 
of the Act accrue to any of these companies. 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, December 26,1972. 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
