MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 12, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
^equired to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
®deral Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Amendment to the Board's Rules Regarding 
Delegation of Authority. 

3 9 5 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tern on Friday, October 12, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
m at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. In a memorandum of October 5, 1973, 
0 Gonnell recommended that the Board accept the resignation of 
John J. Clarke as a consultant to the Board, in which capacity 

3 9 5 3 
10/12/73 
-2-
he had served as the Federal Reserve's representative to a study 
group sponsored by the United Nations. The Board unanimously accepted 
Clarke's resignation, and a copy of the letter sent to him in 
this regard is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York regarding a revision of that Bank's "Plan 
t o Pr°vide Emergency Credit Assistance to Mutual Savings Banks." 
A 
coPy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
In response to a request from Continental Illinois National 
Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, the Board 
Urianimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
l n which the Board indicated that a proposed transfer of loans from 
PI J rst National City Bank, New York, New York, to Continental Illinois 
National Bank and Trust Company would comply with Regulations U and X 
relat--? 
L I n8 to securities credit. A copy of the letter sent to the 
pL . 
icago Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Chase 
Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, New York, to 
organize an Edge corporation in Chicago, Illinois, to be named Chase 
Manhattan International Banking Corporation (Chicago). A copy of 
the lpf-t-Q 
L c e r sent to the applicant, which transmitted a preliminary 
Permit, is attached as Item No. 4. 

3 9 6 0 
10/12/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mercantile 
Bancorporation, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of 
Sedalia Bank and Trust Company, Sedalia, Missouri, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached 
a s Item No. 5. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order, with changes in 
w°rding) reflecting its approval, on September 18, 1973, of the 
application of First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, 
t o acquire shares of the successor by merger to First Hutchings-Sealy 
National Bank of Galveston, Galveston, Texas. A copy of the order, 
together with a copy of the dissenting statement of Governor Bucher, 
l s attached under Item No. 6. 
The Board authorized issuance of orders reflecting its 
aPProval, on September 13, 1973, of the applications of (1) Old Kent 
financial Corporation, Grand Rapids, Michigan, to acquire shares of 
e successor by merger to The Peoples State Bank of Holland, Holland, 
Michigan; and (2) PSB Bank, also of Holland, to consolidate with The 
^e°Ples State Bank of Holland. Copies of the orders, together with 
a copy 0f a dissenting statement of Governors Brimmer and Holland, 
a r e attached under Item No. 7. In a related action on September 13, 
197"} 
J> the Board also approved the application of PSB Bank for member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter informing 
the K 
bank of the Board's approval is attached as Item No. 8. 

39* 
10/12/73 
-4-
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its 
aPprovals of the applications of Central National Bancshares, Inc., 
D e s koines, Iowa, on May 31, 1973, to acquire indirectly shares 
o f The Security State Bank, Algona, Iowa, and United Home Bank & 
Trust Co., Mason City, Iowa, and on August 31, 1973, to acquire 
the assets of LuVerne Insurance Agency, LuVerne, Iowa. A copy of 
the order is attached as Item No. 9. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order, with changes in 
w°rding} reflecting its denial, on September 13, 1973, of the appli-
Cation of Hamilton Bancshares, Inc., Chattanooga, Tennessee, to 
acquire shares of the successor by merger to The Hamilton National 
nk of Knoxville, Knoxville, Tennessee. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 10. 
Pursuant 
to a recommendation by Mr. 0 Connell in a memoran-
m of October 5, 1973, the Board unanimously approved a letter to 
chief Administrative Law Judge Paul N. Pfeiffer requesting a clarifi-
Cat"ion 
his recommendation on the application of Worcester Bancorp, 
Iflc.s Worcester, Massachusetts, to engage in credit-related insurance 
agenCy activities. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 11. 
Pursuant to a recent court decision that the Board lacks 
tatutory authority to deny an application under the Bank Holding 
C°mpany Act solely on the basis that an equal offer had not been 
to all shareholders involved in an acquisition, the Board 

10/12/73 
.5. 
unanimously approved an amendment to its Rules Regarding Delegation 
o f Authority, effective October 12, 1973, eliminating the equal offer 
requirement from the specified criteria that Reserve Banks must 
consider in processing such applications. A copy of the amendment 
l s attached as Item No. 12. 
Th is completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First International Bancshares. 
In a memorandum of October 1, 
the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the application 
° f F i r s t International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, to acquire 
h a r e s o f the successor by merger to Citizens First National Bank of 
T y l e r , Tyler, Texas. With a memorandum of October 3, 1973, the Legal 
division submitted a draft order reflecting a legal basis for denial 
in +-u 
event that the Board wished to deny the application. 
In today's discussion, several Board members expressed continued 
° n c e r n o v e r the trend established by First International and other 
aJ°f Texas bank holding companies of entering the State's larger 
markets K 
oy the acquisition of a leading bank. Attention was focused 
on th» 
n G concentration of the banking structure within the State that 
uld result from a continuation of this trend. 
Discussion revealed a sentiment among a majority of the members 
Present f 
J 
ror denial of the application, but the Board deferred action 

8 9 0 3 
1Q/12/73 
_6_ 
Pending development by the Legal Division of a stronger order of 
d * 
enial that would be presented for consideration by the Board at a 
later date. 
Twin Gates Corporation -- Northern States Bancorporation. In 
a "memorandum of September 19, 1973, the Division of Research and 
scics and the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
PProval of the applications of Twin Gates Corporation, Wilmington, 
laware, and Northern States Bancorporation, Inc., Detroit, Michigan, 
to 
acquire shares of Kelly Mortgage and Investment Company and its 
subsidia • 
varies, Kelly Holding Company and Income Advisory Corporation, 
all °f which are located in Flint, Michigan. In a memorandum of 
tober 5, 1973, the Division of Research and Statistics reversed its 
earlier n 
. . 
position and recommended denial of the application, and in a 
m°randum of October 9, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
teaff• 
ifmed its previous recommendation for approval. 
Discussion centered on the issue of whether public benefits 
to be d erived from the acquisition would outweigh the elimination of 
existw competition for the origination of mortgage loans on 1 to 4 
family 
y residential properties in Lansing, Michigan. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Board unanimously 
the applications and authorized issuance of an order reflect-
ing j-r . 
n is decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 13. 

39114 
10/12/73 
- 7-
Proposed amendment to Regulation Q. In continuance of discus -
Sl°n at its meeting on October 9, 1973, the Board today again consid-
ered proposals to amend Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, with regard 
0 interest rate ceilings and other provisions concerning 4-year 
c°nsumer-type time deposits. 
In a memorandum of October 12, 1973, 
Division of Research and Statistics reviewed the most recent inter-
agency discussions on this subject. 
In today's discussion, the Board reached a consensus on the 
S S U e s involved that was substantially the same as that adopted 
arlier. Serious reservations continued to be expressed regarding a 
P °Posal for adoption of a variable rate ceiling on the 4-year time 
P°sits. Several members of the Board expressed a preference for a 
ceilin 
ng rate of 7-1/4 per cent for banks, rather than the 7 per cent 
n8 previously agreed to. It was understood that this position 
Would h 
° e presented in further meetings of the Interagency Coordinating 
Cq 
0tnmittee on Bank Regulation. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg 
a n d Melnicoff. 
Offic 
er appointment. Pursuant to the recommendation of 
Vernor Holland in a memorandum of October 4, 1973, the Board approved 
aPpointment of Daniel M. Doyle, currently on loan from the 
Scleral 
-ice of the Executive Director, at an annual salary of $37,500, 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, as Deputy Director for Management, 
Offj 
f f ecti V e October 28, 1973. The Board had temporarily appointed 

39t>5 
10/12/73 
-8-
Mr. Doyle to this position at its meeting on August 2, 1973. 
Class C director. Governor Holland reported briefly on a 
Possible candidate to become a Class C director of the Federal Reserve 
fiank of Boston. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

a 
a
m 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
10/12/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A K O 
October 15, 1973 
^ 
J. Clarke, Esq. 
Oakridge Road 
erona, New Jersey 
07044 
N -
D e a r Mr. Clarke: 
This acknowledges your letter of September 6, 1973, in which 
advise of your intended assumption of duties as House Counsel to a 
^gistered bank holding company in the State of New Jersey, and, in view 
r that position, you tender your resignation as consultant to the Board. 
a
U t h G latter position you have served as the Board's representative to 
^study group operating under the auspices of the Secretariat of the 
t Q
i ^ d Nations Commission on International Trade Law, involved in efforts 
clraft a uniform law of international bills of exchange and internation-
P r o m issory notes. 
lri 
The Board accepts, with regret, your resignation, but concurs 
hoVp U r 3udgment that services as House Counsel to a registered bank 
sent n ? c o m P a n y at the same time you would be acting as a Board repre-
c 0 n f v i V e t o t h e Waited Nations study group could raise substantial 
X c t of interest issues. 
The Board is most appreciative of the contribution you have 
t h e B o a r d ' s behalf in a difficult area of international law, • 
wishes you success in your newly selected area of work. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3 9 G 7 
oVcoV*. 
f S S t e . 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
Item No.!2 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
10/12/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 12, 1973 
jfr* Alfred Hayes, President 
N 
eral Reserve Bank of New York 
. 
. ^ 
• e w York, New York 
10045 
D e ar Mr. Hayes: 
. 
. 
This refers to Mr. Coombs' letter of September 24, 1973, trans-
g ting your Bank's "Plan to Provide Emergency Credit Assistance to Mutual 
k e
V l n ? S 
This document outlines a useful procedure and should be 
Pt i n readiness for implementation should the Board find that such 
l Qn is necessary. 
Special care should be taken to insure that the procedure con-
tms closely to the Board's guidelines for providing emergency credit 
Ba Su S t a n C e t o s a v i n 5 s a n d l° a n associations through Federal Home Loan 
, 
s. Those guidelines provide that Federal Home Loan Banks would be 
Res S G d 
t h e 
rate set for advances under Par. 13, Sec. 13 of the Federal 
Vh G £ V C A c t * 
Accordingly, an emergency loan to Savings Bank Trust Co., 
Th° 
G r d i r e c t o r through a member bank, should bear that rate of interest 
rate charged for an "earmarked" loan through a member bank may be 
kank t i a t e d between the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the member 
The Board would, of course, review these rates in the event 
plan were implemented. 
Yours sincerely, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 

k: 
•^REsff.' 
3 3 6 8 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
D F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
10/12/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O H R E B P D N O E H C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 23, 1973 
W i l l i a m H. Gram 
Assistant General Counsel 
Assistant Secretary 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Box 834 
Chicago j Illinois 
60690 
De*r Mr. Gram: 
In its letter of September 11, 1973, superseding its two 
Previous letters of August 22 and August 28, Continental Bank 
(Continental) asks for the views of the Board of Governors as to 
tether Regulation U (and correspondingly Regulation X) would per-
m*t the bank to accept the transfer of a stock-secured extension 
c r e d i t , as described below. A supplementary letter of October 9 
Qe-tails the manner in which the credit will be reduced in connection 
with the transfer, using proceeds of the sale of part of the colla-
t e r a l . 
R 
Continental proposes to take over from First National City 
^nk, New York, New York (Citibank) a number of loans extended to 
J c l e l ity Corporation of Richmond, Va. (Fidelity) in the aggregate of 
million, including all of the collateral in the form of stock and 
g r a n t s securing such loans. 
Of the total amount of these loans, 
^13.5 million represents "purpose" credit subject to Regulation U in 
hat it w a s maintained for the purpose of acquiring and carrying mar-
8111 stock of Equity Funding Corporation of America, although origi-
nal.ly extended to purchase a non-margin stock. An additional $2.1 
Million represents credit extended in early 1973 for the purpose of 
Purchasing stock of Transohio Financial Corporation, a stock which 
subsequently placed on the Board's OTC Margin List, with the 
result that this credit also became purpose credit. 
The Board believes that the proposed transfer would not be 
l n violation of the margin and other requirements of Regulations U 
aud x if the following steps are taken: 

3 9 6 9 
Mr« William H. Gram 
-2-
(1) The stock collateral will be allocated to each credit in 
the same ratio as the amount of such credit bears to the aggregate 
amonnt of the entire loans. Using the market value of the collateral 
a t the time of such allocation stock would be specifically identified 
with the purpose portion of the loan according to the formula 
i ^ ^ i ^ l i o n X Market value of all stock collateral. 
million 
(2) Prior to closing for the transfer, 300,000 shares of 
ransohio stock (segregated for the purpose portion of the loan) will be 
sold and an amount in excess of $2 million, but in any event at least 
~ Per cent of the proceeds, will be used to reduce the purpose portion 
o f the credit. 
(3) Then Continental will obtain from Citibank all the collateral 
Presently securing Citibank's credits extended to Fidelity, and the state-
^ G n t °r statements as to the purpose of such credit obtained by Citibank on 
orm F. r. u-1 in connection with the original extension of the credits to 
G transferred. After assumption of the loans (totaling $36 million) 
„r°m Citibank, Continental will set up separate loan accounts for the 
Purpose" and the "non-purpose" credits and specifically identify the 
stock collateral which serves to secure each of such credits, pursuant to 
paragraphs (1) and (2) above. A non-nurpose portion of the credit in the 
ainount of approximately $3 million in the form of loans and a letter of 
credit will be retained by Citibank on an unsecured basis. 
(4) If the purpose credit is undermargined after such allocation 
s made, the account will be subject to the provisions in Regulation U 
governing substitutions and withdrawals of collateral (§ 221.1(b)) and 
same-day transactions (§ 22.1.1(c)). 
(5) Continental may continue to treat the loans made prior to 
ul-y 8, 1969, for the purpose of acquiring stock of Akron Savings and Loan 
ssociation as loans not subject to Regulation U, except for the purpose 
statement required by section 221.3(a). 
(6) If the stock of Equity Funding Corporation ceases to be a 
^argin stock, the credit collateralized by such stock will also cease to 
0 Purpose credit and would no longer be governed by Regulation U, except 
°r the requirement of preserving the purpose statement for at least three 
^Gars after the credit is extinguished. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3 9 7 0 
^LREsfV 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
•F" T H E 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
10/12/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P 0 N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 12, 1973 
Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 
°ue Chase Manhattan Plaza 
N ew York, New York 
10015 
G entlem e n : 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated August 21, 1973 
Chase Manhattan International Banking Corporation (Chicago), 
Chicago, Illinois, and there is enclosed a preliminary permit 
authorizing that Corporation to exercise such of the powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and 
Preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211,3(a) of Regulation K, 
Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
bV Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
Authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
0 r secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
/?^tify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
y citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
^terest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, 
chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State of the 
Suited States or by firms or companies the controlling interest in 
^ 
ch is owned by citizens of the United. States; and (3) that of the 
uthorized capital stock specified in the Articles of Association at 
V ^ G ast 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and that each share-
holder h a s individually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his 
st°ck subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall 
certify to the payment of the remaining instalments as and when each 
® Paid in, in accordance with law. Request for a final permit 
®hould be forwarded to the Board via the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago. 

Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 
- 2 -
Your attention is directed to the fact that Chase 
Manhattan International Banking Corporation (Chicago) will have no 
separate base under the foreign credit restraint effort and that 
any foreign loans and investment will need to be made under the 
ceiling of Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.(CMB), Accordingly, the 
foregoing approval is given on the condition that any foreign loans 
and investment of the Corporation will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to CMB and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B„ Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3 3 7 2 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
October 12, 1973 
' Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated August 21, 1973 of Chase Manhattan International Banking 
Corporation (Chicago) duly filed with said Board of Governors, and 
that Chase Manhattan International Banking Corporation (Chicago) 
is authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by 
said Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to its 
°rganization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of the 
federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to commence 
business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) 
and the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the 
federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
i 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By (Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3 9 7 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
^ A 2 / 7 3 ' 
MERCANTILE BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mercantile Bancorporation, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, a bank 
holdin 
ng company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPUed for t h e Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
42(a><3)), to acquire at least 90 per cent of the voting shares of 
e d a U a Bank and Trust Company, Sedalia, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
0 n s t o submit comments and'views, has been given in accordance with 
^(b) 0f tjie 
time for filing comments and views has expired, 
Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
l i g h t o f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
$l-3 bill! 
Applicant controls eight banks with aggregate deposits of 
on, representing about 9.2 per cent of total deposits in com-
banks in Missouri, and ranks as the largest banking organization 
in n e State.1/ Applicant's acquisition of Bank (deposits of $18.3 
^Ulio-v 
would not significantly increase the concentration of banking 
P u r e e s in Missouri. 
banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and represent bank 
Aup„ 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
g U s t 31, 1973. 

-2-
3 9 7 1 
Bank ranks as the second largest organization in the relevant 
banking 
ng market with approximately 21.5 per cent of the market deposits.2/ 
The^e -f« 
J-s no significant existing competition between Applicant and Bank 
th Appiicant»s c i o s e s t banking subsidiary being located 80 miles from 
Bank 
m 
^or does there appear to be a reasonable probability of compe-
titi 
° n developing between Applicant and Bank. The population of Pettis 
U n t y decreased between 1960 and 1970, and the market, judged by the 
^atiog of a 
1 deposits and population per banking office, appears to be 
tractive for de novo entry. Applicant's acquisition of Bank would 
stin l eave alternative means of entry to other holding companies. 
^oreov r> acquisition of Bank by Applicant could enable the former to 
Ptovi(je more vigorous competition for the largest bank in the market 
Which i 
s almost twice the size of Bank. Based upon the facts of record, 
the 
, 
ard concludes the competitive considerations of the application 
consistent with its approval. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, 
Subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as generally satisfactory, 
PartiCul arly i n view of Applicant's commitment to provide additional 
CaPital and management depth to Bank. This factor lends some support 
for 
PProval of the application. Considerations relating to the convenience 
l o cated r e l e V a n t banking market is approximated by Pettis County, which is 
west central Missouri. 

397* 
-3-
a n d needs of the community to be served are consistent with approval of 
t h e application. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the pro-
v e d transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
sh<>uld be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
not 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall /be consummated (a) before 
t h e thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
°r 00 later than three months after the effective date of this Order 
Unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,3/ effective October 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
sL\-in 8 f o r th i s action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
G0
 
an> Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Vernor Brimmer. 

3 9 7 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
10/12/73 
FIRST INTERNATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a bank 
holdino 
g coinpany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under <5 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
8^2(a)(3)) t Q a c q u i r e a l l o f t h e v o t i n g shares (less directors' qualifying 
a r e s) of the successor by merger to First Hutchings-Sealy National 
a n k of Galveston, Galveston, Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank 
to h merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the 
quisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
^isition of shares of the successor organization is treated herein 
as the 
Proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
PerSonq 
to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) ftf , 
o t the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and n 
° n e has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion 4 
l n Ught of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Texas, presently 
c°ntroi 
y 
~ 
•Ls 12 banks 
with aggregate deposits of approximately $2.6 billion, 
l / l r — -
inter
 a d d i t i ° n to its 12 subsidiary banks, Applicant indirectly controls 
of 
o f less than 25 per cent in five banks, with aggregate deposits 
2/ A 
million (as of December 31, 1972). 
Compa banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect holding 
formations and acquisitions approved through August 31, 1973. 

3 9 7 7 
-2-
rePresenting 7.4 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
State. Acqusition of Bank would increase Applicant's share of State 
^Posits by .23 per cent and would not result in a significant increase 
in 
t h e c°ncentration of banking resources in Texas. 
Bank (approximately $81 million in deposits) is the largest 
0f 
banks in the Galveston-Texas City SMSA banking market and controls 
24,5 n 
Per cent of the deposits in commercial banks in the market. Appli-
cant ' o subsidiary bank closest to Bank is located in Houston, 52 miles 
away 
a A 
, 
* ana no meaningful present competition exists between any of Applicant s 
ubsidiary banks and Bank. Moreover, there appears to be little likeli-
hood c 
t Qr the development of any significant amount of future competition 
W e e n these institutions in view of the distances involved and Texas1 
est*ictive branching law. Although Applicant could enter the market 
o r through the acquisition of a smaller bank, Applicant's 
^isition of Bank is not regarded as having a substantially adverse 
e£fect. „ 
, 
_ „ , 
on potential competition because Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
^ouid 
n°t result in Applicant's gaining a dominant share of the market's 
nS resources, nor would it appear to foreclose the entry of other 
S companies into this market. Accordingly, the Board concludes that 
p6titive considerations are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Bank 
K> and of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks, are regarded 
3atisfactory. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are 
lat-e n t with approval of the application. Although there is no evidence 
i n the record to indicate that the banking needs of the residents of 

3 9 7 8 
-3-
t h e Galveston-Texas City banking market are not currently being met, the 
pr°posed affiliation is likely to result in expansion of the range of 
Services presently offered by Bank. In approving this application, the 
B° a r d c°nsidered the fact that Galveston is a major port city in the 
Utllted States and that international trade financing is a highly specialized 
t y p e o f activity which can be provided by Applicant and for which there 
is 
substantial demand in Galveston. Considerations relating to the 
c°nvenience and needs of the community to be served, therefore, lend weight 
t 0 W a r d approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the pro-
P° S e d acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
S h° U l d b e approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
easons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) 
°rder 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
(b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order » unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
y 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester 3. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
o/ yrrq— 
She h
8 
f o r t h i s a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Abse 
' a n d H o l l a n d * 
Voting against this action: Governor Bucher. 
n t and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 

3 9 7 9 
DISSENTING STATEMENT 
OF 
GOVERNOR BUCHER 
I dissent from the Board's approval of the subject application. 
a disturbing pattern is developing in the recently approved and 
Pending proposed acquisitions of subsidiary banks by First International 
Bancshare<5 
s» Inc. (Applicant), the largest banking organization in Texas. 
aPplicant has generally acquired or proposes to acquire major banks 
in each c, 
y 
secondary SMSA market 
that it enters, which includes banks in the 
°wing Texas cities: Harlingen, Temple, Odessa, Denison, Tyler, 
Abil*ne r.i 
» waiveston. The Implication is clear, that a continual policy 
Pproving such acquisitions, when a large statewide firm combines with 
a major K 
ank in a local market, raises a distinct likelihood of an eventual 
•Le level of aggregate concentration. The Congress directed 
bankin 
authorities in the Bank Merger Act of 1960 and re-emphasized 
a g a i n in th 
J-n the 1970 
amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act to consider 
S sibiHty of "undue concentration of resources." Further such 
aCquisiti0 n s raay have anti-comoetitive effects by raising the barriers 
t 0 entry i n t 0 these markets by other bank holding companies, particularly 
y"~°riented bank holding companies, or by more deeply entrenching 
6 doi»iinanh 
f
 
a n c Position of the major bank. I feel the Board has the 
sibii i t y t o a l d i n maintaining or stimulating market competition, 
he » , 
achiev 
G n t of this goal presents difficult analytical problems and 
^
'
^
r
-
than t h r y S M S A m a r k e t " r e f e r s to any Texas SMSA banking market other 
n e Dallas, FortWorth, Houston, and San Antonio SMSA markets. 

3 9 8 0 
- 2 -
°nes x f 
reel the Board failed to focus on clearly in the instant application 
acquire The First Hutchings-Sealy National Bank of Galveston (Bank). 
Bank has a sufficient size, a sound management and financial 
conditiOT1 and a growth record to be able to serve local needs without 
affiii . 
n w ith a larger organization. The international services that 
Provided by Applicant to Bank could either be offered to the 
Galvesto 
T 
" J-exas City market through the acquisition of a small bank or 
ky de novn 
— e n t r y . 
There appear to be few other community needs that 
cannot h* 
e met by the existing institutions, either directly or through 
°rrespondent relationships. 
In my view the Galveston area is relatively attractive for 
^ novo 0 r r 
, 
r roothold entry. The ratio of banking offices to population 
in thig 
^ 
market is significantly above the statewide ratio. The population 
lveston County increased at a rate higher than the State over-all. 
J-s a prosperous, major Gulf port in the State of Texas. These 
° n8 the factors that lead me to believe the Galveston-Texas City 
ould be attractive to potential entry by a large bank holding 
Co*Pany lilf 
K e Applicant. X do not believe that Applicant has presented a 
case 
r e the public benefits outweigh the detriment to probable future 
C°*Petitio , 
n in this market. By approving this application the Board has 
Ptec3-uded th 
Lrie pro-competitive effects and possible market deconcentration 
y entry on 
a smaller scale. Indeed, this approval may only encourage 
Clonal a ij 
aPplications illustrating the concerns I have mentioned here. 
n tllese 
^ 
grounds, X would deny the application. 
°ctob e r 12, 1973. 

3 9 8 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m No. 7 
10/12/73 
OLD KENT FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Kent Financial Corporation, Grand Rapids, Michigan, a 
bank K IJ 
°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
*-(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of the successor by 
c o The Peoples State Bank of Holland, Holland, Michigan ("Bank"), 
^he bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as 
a toeans t-
c o facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. 
the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organi-
s treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons 
r 
c o submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b\ 
o f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
t h e Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
Ught * 
o t the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls two banks with aggregate deposits of $661.7 
* t U l o n> representing 2.8 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
b*nks i 
l n Michigan, and is the seventh largest banking organization in 
t H*S t a, 
i 7 
C e < 
The acquisition of Bank (deposits of $49.1 million) would 
S e Applicant's share of State deposits by only 0.2 percentage point 
its rank would remain unchanged. 
P^iT^r------
^ 
data are as of December 31, 1972, adjusted to reflect 
^htQu&u 
n S company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
8 h June 30, 1973. 

-2-
3 9 8 2 
Bank is the larger of two banks headquartered in the city 
f Holland (population of 26,000), located 27 miles southwest of Grand 
Raping 
i s the second largest of three banks in the Holland banking 
itiarke 
with 31 per cent of total deposits therein. The largest bank 
in the m i 
m a r k e t , First Michigan Bank and Trust Company, Zeeland ("Zeeland 
Bank") 
» is located five miles northeast of Bank and controls almost 48 
Per cent* f total deposits in the market. The smallest of the three banks, 
controls approximately 21 per cent of deposits, recently affiliated 
b i 
Pr°Posal 
with a ba u u 
ank holding company system. It appears that consummation of the 
would not have an undue adverse effect on any competing bank. 
Applicant's lead bank, Old Kent Bank and Trust Company, Grand 
P i d s ("Old Kent"), with deposits of $647.3 million, is the largest 
hankie 
§ organization in the Grand Rapids banking market and controls 49 
Per cent 
, 
o r its total deposits. While the Grand Rapids and Holland banking 
Markets 
are adjacent, they are separate market areas. Old Kent's head 
°ffice i R , 
-18 in Grand Rapids and its penetration of the adjacent Holland market 
Has 
G c m n°roinal except for a few large business accounts. This is 
8il°wn bv 
y the fact that Old Kent's Hudsonville branch, located 13 miles 
n°rtheast c 
c ot Holland, has not in any way significantly affected the 
H°Uand n, . 
market, and therefore, this branch does not represent a reasonable 
alternat, 
l ve to banking services offered in Holland. Applicant draws 
^Posits f 
rrom the Holland market representing only 2 per cent of the total 
banking market is approximated by the northwest portion 
egan County and the southwest portion of Ottawa County. 

the deposi 
3 9 8 3 
p°sits in that market while Bank has no deposits drawn from Old Kent's 
serviCe area. In viex* of the above, the Board concludes that there is no 
ningful existing competition between Applicant and Bank. While 
AppIlCa , 
n c has the size and resources to enter the market de novo, this 
^thod of 
expansion is unlikely as the Holland market is not particularly 
attractive f 
V(- tor such entry. It has not been a rapidly expanding area^ 
ts per banking office are $14.4 million compared to the State 
«e of $14,7 million and the population per banking office ratio is 
5,273 r p 1 
eiative to the State average of 5,495. On the basis of the record 
bef0re 
•'-t, the Board concludes that the acquisition would have no significant 
feet on existing or potential competition in any relevant area. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, 
Us 
Subsidiary banks, and Bank are generally satisfactory^ future pros-
Pects f 
0 r all are favorable. Applicant proposes to assist Bank in providing 
° r improved services with respect to areas such as installment, mortgage, 
c°mmercial lending, trust services, computer and international services, 
^lle t h 
n e re is no evidence in the record that the banking needs of the 
a r 
G n°t being adequately served, the improved or expanded services 
Ptovide customers with an alternative source of such services and, 
> would enable Bank to compete more effectively with the aggressive 
ank. Therefore, considerations relating to the convenience and 
of the communities to be served are regarded as consistent with 
*Pprovai 
T 
it is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
J-cion is in the public interest and that the application should be 

-4 
3 9 8 4 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
h e Reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
thi 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this 
G er, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
or ^ 
»e Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
^ane 
f o r t h i s a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
a n d Hol?nd S h e e h a n * 
Voting against this action: Governors Brimmer 
land. Absent and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

3 9 8 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PSB BANK 
Order Approving Application for Consolidation of Banks 
PSB Bank, Holland, Michigan, a proposed State member bank of the 
federal R 
reserve System, has applied for the Board's approval pursuant to 
h e Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828 (c)) of the consolidation of that 
^ W i t h T h e Peoples State Bank of Holland, Holland, Michigan, under 
a m G of The Peoples State Bank of Holland. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in form 
2d t 
tePort{ 
aPproved h 
oy the Board, has been published, and the Board has requested 
•s °n competitive factors from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
the r 
Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 
B°ard h a c 
a s considered the application in light of the factors set forth 
the Act. 
°n the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
ns su 
aPpli 
teason3 o summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating to the 
^ g e r 
Cation of Old Kent Financial Corporation to acquire the successor by 
to The Peoples State Bank of Holland, provided that said consolidation 
shaix n o t be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
the dat-
e o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
» unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 

3 9 8 6 
e federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
I-1 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 12, 1973 
(Signed) 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
4/ VotT~~-"7—— 
Daane 
t*lis action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
and 
Slleelian' Voting against this action: Governors Brimmer 
land. Absent and not voting; Governor Bucher. 

3 9 8 7 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS BRIMMER AND HOLLAND 
Applicant, through its lead bank, dominates the Grand Rapids 
k^nkinc* 
8 market. It controls 49 per cent of the total deposits in that 
area: 
. 
w o closest competitors hold 22.5 per cent and 17.3 per cent 
of thos 
e deposits, respectively. By this application, Applicant seeks 
Ccluire the second largest bank in the adjacent Holland market, having 
sli8htlv 
y over 31 per cent of market deposits. While these two markets 
a t e» at n 
Present, separate, there is no question that the area is becoming 
rGasingly integrated„ 
Grand Rapids is expanding to the west and there 
growth of bedroom communities in Ottawa County. Grand Rapids banks 
nching into Ottawa County and Holland Banks are permitted to branch 
W l t h i n a few miles of Grand Rapids. 
Approval of the application gives Applicant control of 43.7 
Per C e 
°f deposits in the Grand Rapids SMSA and permits Applicant to 
r*itlforCo -i «-
its existing dominance in the Grand Rapids area. It removes an 
attract, 
i V e vehicle for entry into Holland by a smaller Grand Rapids banking 
tion—or by an outside banking organization—either of which 
Pments would have been pro-competitive. It is evident that Applicant 
has fcK 
e managerial and financial resources to enter the Holland market 
^ -QSVo. 
w e find no benefits to the public to be derived from this 
PtoPosal 
t 
wnich outweigh the above adverse effects on competition. 
r e» we would deny this application. 

3 9 8 8 
B D A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
•FTHE . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 
10/12/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 12, 1973 
Board of Directors 
P sB Bank 
36-38 East 8th Street 
H°Hand, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
aPProves the application of PSB Bank, Holland, Michigan, for 
st-ock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, subject to the 
Numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with clue regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, such bank shall not 
cause or permit any change to be made in the 
general character of its business or in the 
scope of the corporate powers exercised by it 
at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit 
liabilities and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application with the understanding 
PSB Bank will not conduct a banking business with the public 
rior to its merger with The Peoples State Bank of Holland, Holland, 
Michigan. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
rticular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
th 8 U- a t i o n H> regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
Gleof, 
a copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

3 9 8 9 
Board of Directors 
- 2 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. 
A certified copy of such resolution should be transmitted 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

3 9 9 0 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 9 
10/12/73 
CENTRAL NATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Two Banks and 
Acquisition of an Insurance Agency 
Central National Bancshares, Inc., Des Moines, Iowa, a bank 
hold:tn 
n8 company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
PPlied i n separate applications for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) 
of 
as foil 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire shares of each of two banks 
1/ 
ows :' 
(1) 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of Kossuth Security 
estment Company ("Kossuth Investment"), Mason City, Iowa, a bank 
in 8 company, thereby indirectly acquiring 80 per cent or more of the 
V°tim> 
2/ 
arid 
S h a r e s o f T h e Security State Bank, Algona, Iowa ("Algona State");' 
(2) 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of Unibank, Inc. 
Mason City, Iowa, a bank holding company, thereby indirectly 
qulring 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of United Home Bank & 
^ust 
„ 
2/ 
Mason City, Iowa ("'Mason State"). 
Invest 
c a n t 
h a d 
a l s o 
a P P l i e d 
to acquire voting shares of United American 
^itst c e n t Co'» I I a s o n C ity, Iowa, a bank holding company, thereby acquiring 
these 
t a t e B a n k> Britt, Iowa, and Britt Insurance Agency, Britt, Iowa, but 
applications have been withdrawn. 
y 
Kos 
ancl an Sf t h I n v e s tment owns 82 per cent of the voting shares of Algona State 
KoSsu °ffer to purchase shares from minority shareholders will also be made, 
^tionai 
e S t m e n t a l s ° ° w n s 
p e r c e n t o f t h e v o t i n S shares of The First 
Prior t 
B a n k ° f K l e m m » Klemm, Iowa, but such ownership will be divested 
° consummation of the proposed acquisitions. 
i/ (j . 
llas0ri o a n k Presently owns approximately 70 per cent of the voting shares of 
c0nSUmni
 a t e» but will own 80 per cent or more of such shares prior to 
madeati°n' 
A n 
o f f e r 
t o 
P u r c h a s e shares from minority shareholders will 
^ati0n i U n i bank also owns 4.9 per cent of the voting shares of The First 
^ior t B a n k ° f K l e m m » K l e m m » Iowa, but such ownership will be divested 
0 consummation of the proposed acquisitions. 

3 9 9 1 
-2-
Applicant has also applied for the Board's approval under 
4(c>(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
^egulaM 
v 
tion Y to acquire the assets of LuVerne Insurance Agency, LuVerne, 
Iowa fiii 
Agency"), an unincorporated insurance agency operated by Kossuth 
estment, and thereby to engage in the activities of a general insurance 
aSencv i ri 
M
n
a 
community of less than 5,000 persons. Such activities have been 
° r m i n e d hy t h e B o a r d to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9) 
(lii>(a)). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons t-« 
v 
to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§§ 3 
a n d A of the Act (38 Federal Register 12166 and 13062). The time for 
fUing c n omments and views has expired, and the Board has considered the 
^Ppli 
Cations and all comments received in light of the factors set forth 
i n § 3(c\ 
; o f the Act, and the considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) of 
t h e Act. 
Coi»Pan 
Applicant controls one bank, Central National Bank and Trust 
Des Moines, Iowa ("Central National"), with deposits of approximately 
J-ion, representing under 3 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
n k a in Mi 
the State, and is the fifth largest banking organization in Iowa. 
(B 
8 data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect bank holding company 
'tmatio 
n s and acquisitions approved by the Board through August 15, 1973.) 
^summation of the proposals herein, Applicant would control 3.5 
^Pon 
Pet o 
Cent nf 
o t total deposits in commercial banks in the State and would 
Iowa's third largest banking organization. 

3 9 9 2 
-3-
Algona State (deposits of approximately $12 million) is the larger 
of two commercial banks in Algona (population of 6,032 as of 1970) and 
°Perates a single branch in LuVerne (population of 380 as of 1970). 
It i 
A/ 
s the largest of eight commercial banks in its banking market, 
and 
°ntrols slightly over 26 per cent of total deposits therein. The second 
argest bank in the market is approximately the same size. Mason State 
(d 
ePosits of $41 million) is the second largest of three commercial 
b a n k s l n Mason City (population 30,491 as of 1970) and is the second 
largest 
f 
1/ 
o r eleven commercial banks in the Mason City banking market, 
With 
per cent of deposits in that market. The largest bank in the 
market 
is a holding company affiliate and holds approximately 36 per cent 
total deposits in commercial banks in that market. 
Mason State and Algona State are both located in the north-
Ce*trai Portion of Iowa, approximately 50 miles apart and over 100 miles 
Applicant's banking subsidiary, Central National. As a result of 
distances involved, the size of the banks, and other facts of record, 
^ere -t0 
i S no significant competition between Algona State and Mason State 
btitween either of them and Central National. Nor, in view of the 
t a n° e s separating the banks, Iowa's restrictive branching laws, and other 
fa°ts of 
o r record, does it appear that significant future competition between 
— - — ^ — 
of 
e relevant banking market is approximated by the lower three-fifths 
®Suth County plus the area immediately to the north in Kossuth County 
n 8 the town of Bancroft. 
5/ 
T 
atid tuG *'ias°n City banking market is approximated by Cerro Gorde County 
atfj 
G towns of Sheffield, Nora Springs, and Manly which are located in 
Gl*t counties. 

3 . 9 3 3 
-3-
Alo 
State and Mason State or between either of them and Applicant would 
b e foreclosed. However, the application indicates that the President, Chief 
cutive Officer, and Director of Mason State proposes to continue in 
k°Se positions and also become a director of Applicant and of Central 
Nationsi 
«nai. This individual, either by himself or along with business 
s°ciates, directly or indirectly exercises control over two other banks 
the Mason City banking market, American State Bank, Mason City, Iowa 
(de Posits of slightly over $8 million), and Manly State Bank, Manly, Iowa 
( 
^^ 
^ ° s i t s Of 
over $6 million). 
The Board is concerned with the conflict of 
erest and anticompetitive implications of permitting this individual to 
t V e as a director of Applicant and as an officer and director of Mason State 
n e> at the same time, retains significant ownership interests in 
Iapeting banks. Although Applicant and the individual are aware of these 
P t o b W 
m s and have indicated that certain steps will be taken to avoid these 
Po8sibl 
l e consequences, the Board believes that its approval of the subject 
Cations should assure that the individual will not serve as an officer 
^rector of Applicant or any of its banking subsidiaries while at the 
8ame t. 
<-ime retaining significant interests in any competing bank. Accordingly, 
-
tw0 k 
i n d i vidual is presently the largest single shareholder in each of 
Amer.ank folding companies which together control the largest block of 
Stat
 C a n State Bank's shares; also, he, individually, owns shares in American 
of * Bank. 
In addition, he and members of his family own over 80 per cent 
of 
shares of Manly State Bank where he serves as Chairman of the Board 
aSso fetors and President. Furthermore, the individual and close business 
AlgQn 
8 Presently control each of eight other banks in Iowa, including 
n a State. 

3 9 3 4 
i 
-5-
* e ®°ard has conditioned its approval as hereinafter set forth to assure 
tllat ttle potential conflict of interest and anticompetitive implications 
will u 
be avoided. On this basis and on the record herein, the Board finds 
consummation of the proposals will not have an adverse effect on 
0lnPetition in any relevant area. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, 
its 
subsidiary bank, and the proposed subsidiary banks are regarded as 
satiof 
J-actory and future prospects for all appear favorable. There is no 
Gnce in the record to indicate that the banking needs of the residents 
of ti 
n e communities involved are not being adequately served. Consummation, 
Wever, ±3 
t o provide the proposed subsidiary banks with improved 
services, greater funding sources, and additional expertise, 
liberations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served are consistent with approval of the applications. It is 
the 
board's judgment that the proposed acquisitions would be in the public 
terest and that the applications subject to the conditions set forth below 
be approved. 
Agency is a general insurance agency and conducts its business 
lely from the branch office of Algona State in LuVerne. Agency is the 
y insurance agency in LuVerne and its continued affiliation with the 
branch °f Algona State assures that community of a convenient source of 
Surance agency services. There is no evidence in the record indicating 
that c 
consummation of the proposal would result in any undue concentration 
^sources, unfair competition, conflicts of interests, unsound banking 

3 9 9 5 
-2-
practices, or other adverse effects on the public interest. Based upon 
t h c foregoing and other considerations reflected in the record, the Board 
bas determined that the balance of the public interest factors the Board 
A 3 required to consider regarding the acquisition of Agency under § 4(c)(8) 
i s favorable and that such application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, and for the reasons summarized above, 
e applications under § 3(a)(3) and § 4(c)(8) of the Act are approved, 
Sukject to the follottfing conditions: 
(1) Applicant shall not permit the individual presently serving 
a s ^resident, Chief Executive Officer, and Director of Mason State to 
S e r ve as an officer or director of Applicant or of any of Applicant's 
banking subsidiaries while he, at the same time, serves as officer or 
clit 
ector or controls in any manner any bank that competes with a banking 
Subsidiary of Applicant. 
(2) Applicant shall not permit the aforesaid individual to serve 
8 a director or officer of Applicant or any of its banking subsidiaries 
uMess: 
(a) he shall divest his direct and indirect ownership of 
^Otin 
"6 shares of, and shall cease to control in any manner, American State 
ank» Mason City, Iowa, as promptly as possible, and in no event later 
tha 
n six months after he has become an officer or director of Applicant 
Of a 
ny of its banking subsidiaries, and 
(b) he shall, prior to becoming an officer or director of 
pplicant or any of its banking subsidiaries, resign as an officer and 

3 9 9 6 
-3-
director of Manly State Bank, Manly, Iowa, refrain from controlling 
Manly st-
cate Bank, and have agreed, in writing, to divest his direct and 
direct- ownership interests in Manly State Bank, as promptly as possible, 
no event later than two years after he has become an officer or 
^rector 
r of Applicant or any of its banking subsidiaries. 
(3) Applicant shall not permit International Bank, 
5 on, D. C. to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling 
ir>flueUc. 
e over the management or policies of Applicant or any of its 
Claries; 
and 
W 
No shares of any proposed subsidiary may be acquired under 
the Ord 
e r herein (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
^fectiv 
e date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the 
effectiv 
e date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
C a U S e by th 
' 
ne Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to 
°8ated authority. 
The Order herein is further subject to the conditions set forth 
§ 225 l 
Such 
° f R e 8 U l a t i 0 n Y a n d t 0 t h e Board's authority to require 
^ 
m0clification or termination of the activities of a holding company 
its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
the 
o^ 
p r o v isions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
Applicant's applications to acquire voting shares of United American 
Z/^jT; 
V o tin e 
1 n a t i ° n a l B a n k P r e v i o u s l y held in excess of 25 per cent of the 
t o term? 
8 ° f A p P l i c a n t a n d h a s taken steps satisfactory to the Board 
°wns lo 
a t e l t S c o n t r o 1 o v e r Applicant. International Bank presently 
^-ss than 5 per cent of Applicant's voting shares. 

3 9 3 7 
- 8 -
•t 
Vestment Co., Mason City, Iowa, thereby acquiring First State Bank, 
Iowa, and Britt Insurance Agency, Britt, Iowa, are dismissed as 
moot. 
8/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
BtiJ[oting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
*mer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

3 9 9 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 10 
10/12/73 
HAMILTON BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
Hamilton Bancshares, Inc., Chattanooga, Tennessee, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
842(a)(3)) to acquire the successor by merger to The Hamilton National 
B a n k of Knoxville, Knoxville, Tennessee ("Bank"). The bank into which 
1 8 to be merged has no significance except as a means to facili-
tate th 
acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the 
PtOpQQpj 
«« acquisition of shares of the successor organization is treated 
here J 
a as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application affording opportunity for interested 
Per8ons 
v 
«-o submit comments and views has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) o f ., 
or the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the 
Board has considered the application and all comments received 
ll8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
Applicant controls 13 banks with aggregate deposits of $619.6 
°n> representing about 6 per cent of total deposits of commercial 
bating j 
l.f 
11 Tennessee. 
Bank (deposits of $288.4 million) ranks as the 
*Unth i 
Qrgest banking organization in Tennessee with approximately 3 per 
—* 
— — _ — 
hol<UnK
 
k i n S data are as of December 31, 1972, and represent bank 
^0mPany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
August 31, 1973. 

3 9 3 9 
c^nt of total deposits of commercial banks in the State. Acquisition of 
B a n k by Applicant would make the latter the third largest organization 
i n the State with about 9 per cent of total deposits but would not sig-
nlfleantly increase the concentration of banking resources in Tennessee, 
The United States Department of Justice in commenting on this 
aPPlication concluded that it should be denied. The Department indicated 
h a t it believed that consummation of the transaction would eliminate 
listing competition between Applicant and Bank, would have an 
d V e t S e e£fect on potential competition in the Knoxville banking market 
> niore seriously, would eliminate Bank as one of the few banks in 
lessee capable of becoming a lead bank for an additional holding 
COJJJJJ 
In this latter connection, Justice cited the Board's denial of 
the 
aPPlication by United Tennessee Bancshares Corporation to merge with 
Gtican National Corporation (see 1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin 530). 
There is no substantial existing competition between Applicant 
20 
Bank. Although Applicant does have two subsidiaries within 
*Ue 8 of v 
Knoxville, these subsidiaries and Bank have little loan or 
overlap. However, the Board does feel that consummation of this 
tranaact.. 
^cion would have a substantially adverse effect on future competi-
tion l n „. 
U 
u the Knoxville banking market. 
Bank is the largest bank in 
tht8 
m«rket, with approximately 30 per cent of market deposits. More-
' 
i s 1 8 a concentrated market with the top two organizations having 
1/ 
6 K n o x v i l l e banking market is approximated by Knox, 31ount, and 
° n Counties. 

4 0 0 0 
-3-
° V e r 5 0 P e r cent of market deposits and the third-ranking bank being 
c°nsiderably less than half the size of the second-ranking bank. Acqui-
®ition of Bank by Applicant would tend to solidify this two-firm 
finance. On the other hand, if Applicant entered the Knoxville banking 
either through a de novo entry or the acquisition of a foothold 
bank t-h 
» tnere is a probability that a trend towards deconcentration would 
eault. Such a trend would be in the public interest by offering the 
PrQmisf» 
ot more vigorous competition. 
Applicant can reasonably be expected to have a strong interest 
entering the Knoxville banking market."" 
For any holding company in 
n e 8 8 e e t 0 h a v e Statewide representation, it is desirable to have a 
a ry in the four major metropolitan areas of Tennessee of which 
^OKvine is one. The ratios for population and deposits per banking 
°ffiCe in 
t h e Knoxville banking market are both above comparable State-
averages and the market appears to be relatively attractive for de 
novo en 
— 
Furthermore, although there is no present downtown bank 
t h a t Voulrf k 
be available for foothold acquisition into the Knoxville 
^nkirn* 
n 3 a r k e t» t h e r a is one suburban bank in Knox County which may be 
*Vai*able f 
acquisition. Under Tennessee branching law, acquisition 
8uch 1^ a n t c l a l m s t h a t because of common stock ownership the development 
K 
larfiG
 
P ^ t l t i o n i s unli*<ely. However, the amount of such overlap is 
i ld by thi* i n v i e w o f t h e f a c t t h a t 3 l a r 8 e r b l o c k o f B a n k ' s s h a r e s 
1 8 
a! a i8nif^ 
parties the Board does not believe that the common ownership 
</ In thi 
e n o u 8 h t o impede competition. 
T?ini°n th f. c o" n e c t l o n» t h e Boar<* has reconsidered its earlier expressed 
fr V r d ' 
market was not attractive (38 Federal Register 3120). 
S 
^ P ^ a t i o r o f 1 6 ^ 0 ^ 1 0 1 1 , ^ 8 b 3 S e d S ° l e l y U p ° n t h e r a t e o f 
of 
ratios of n 
J 
K n O X v i l l e b a n k i n S market and did not take into account 
population and deposits per banking office. 

4 0 0 1 
-2-
o f this suburban bank would enable Applicant to branch throughout Knox County 
which is t h e commercial center of the Knoxville banking market. 
Finally, the Board notes that Applicant is one of only three 
citibank holding companies that are not presently represented in the 
°*ville banking market. The Board concludes that the most probable 
entrant 
" into any local market in Tennessee must be considered to be the 
Q B J 
8ting multibank holding companies. The Board is concerned when one of 
the thr 
ee most probable future entrants into a concentrated market seeks 
to ent-
e r that market, which market is relatively attractive for de novo 
by acquisition of the largest bank in the market. In summation, 
the Rn , 
a*d finds that the Knoxville banking market is concentrated, that 
4pplic ar*t is a probable future entrant into such market—in fact, it is 
0116 Of thA u 
ne three most likely probable future entrants into the market— 
and that « 
opportunities exist for de novo or foothold entry. Given these 
fact0rs 
. 
» cne Board concludes that consummation of the transaction would 
a a k 
ubstantially adverse effect on potential competition. 
The Board is additionally concerned with the effect the 
^ 
ation of this transaction would have on the number of additional 
h°lding companies that may reasonably be expected to be formed in 
nne8aee 
n , 
• Bank, as the ninth largest banking organization in Tennessee 
^ a t unaffiliated bank, is one of the three most probable candi-
L 0 become a lead bank in a multibank holding company. Applicant 
J 
icated its reservations about the ability of Bank to become such 
Te 

4 0 0 2 
-2-
a lead bank. However, the record shows that Bank has improved its 
earning8 record significantly in the last year. There is no reason to 
Del { 
e t h a t this trend will not continue. Bank certainly has the size 
a n d W o u l d appear to have the managerial and financial capabilities to 
e C° m e a lea(J bank in a multibank holding company within the near future. 
A8 
P Board stated in its order denying the application of United 
e 8 8 e e Bancshares Corporation, local banking markets in Tennessee 
tend to k 
oe concentrated. For this reason, it is important to preserve 
s iBnifi c a n t n u m b e r o f multibank holding companies who are the most 
i k e l y P°tential entrants into such markets. It is certainly foresee-
flb^g 4,1 
a t if this application is denied, Bank and Applicant may be 
ntlng each other in these concentrated markets in the near future. 
Petition and, ultimately, consumers should benefit from such a 
Ability, on the basis of the facts of record, the Board concludes 
competitive factors relating to this application weigh against 
^PPto 
V al Of the application. 
The financial condition and managerial resources and prospects 
of * 
leant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are generally satisfactory 
insistent with approval of the application. However, these factors 
offset thp r. u 
, -11 
^ 
substantially adverse competitive considerations that 
result from consummation of the transaction. There is no indication 
re 
n Q
 
C° r d t h a t t h e convenience and needs of the ICnoxville community are 
n 8 adequately met at the present title. Moreover, there Is no real 
^icati 
that Applicant's acquisition of Bank would serve to increase 

4 0 0 3 
-3-
thg 
e convenience and needs of the area since Bank is fully capable of doing 
8() qh •. 
o w n a n d has, in fact, recently expanded its range of services 
thr 
°u8h lengthening of its hours. Accordingly, these factors do not out-
Wei8h the competitive considerations. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is not 
t h e Public interest and should be denied. On the basis of the record, 
application is denied for the reasons summarized above. 
_ 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 17, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Absent L 
h a n» a n d Holland. Present and abstaining: Chairman Burns, 
and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
|.. 4 0 0 4 
Item No. 11 
10/12/73 ! 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
D r r t C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O t N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A W O 
October 12, 1973 
Jl01*. Paul N. Pfeiffer 
hief Administrative Law Judge 
Room 4610, Department of Commerce 
and E Streets, N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20235 
Re: Worcester Bancorp, Inc., application to engage in 
insurance agency activities. Docket IA-1 
Dear Judge Pfeiffer: 
* 
- x 
The Board has under review the Findings and Conclusions 
Recommended Decision on the above application of Worcester 
ancorp, Inc. which you submitted to the Board on September 10, 
In the course of this review, certain questions have 
arisen concerning parts of the Findings and Conclusions and the 
Commended Decision as to which it would be helpful to the Board 
o have your further consideration and such clarification or modi-
xcation as you deem appropriate. Accordingly, the case is hereby 
landed to you for this limited purpose only. 
The questions raised are as follows: 
(1) At page 20 of the Recommended Decision, paragraph 1 
efers to "individual sales of credit life, health and accident and 
^ ^ S a g e redemption insurance in amounts and terms in excess of 
. 
and 10 years." Paragraph 2 recommends "that appropriate 
\J 'atements be included in all such insurance forms in bold type 
s immediately above the applicant's signature to the effect that the 
stomer understands that the placement of such insurance is not 
"ered as a condition to the grant of the loan, nor as an induce-
therefor, . . . " 
Is it intended that such "appropriate statements" not 
be required on forms used in connection with (a) sales of 
insurance under group policies, or (b) individual sales in 
amounts and terras under $10,000 and 10 years? 
Or, alterna-
tively, is it intended that such statements be required on 
forms used in connection with all insurance sales? 

Hon. Pqul N. Pfeiffer 
- 
2 
-
4 0 0 5 
• (2) At pages 20-21, paragraph 2 (see also Findings and 
Conclusions 18) includes a recommendation that certain statements 
be required in forms used in connection with the sale of mortgage 
Ademption insurance. 
« 
Since Applicant disclaims any requirement by it for 
mortgage redemption insurance prior to an extension of 
credit (TR. 2934-35)', is it intended that such statements 
should be included only if applicant should later require 
mortgage redemption insurance as a condition for extending 
credit? 
(3) At page 21, paragraph 3 of the Recommended Decision 
(see also Findings and Conclusions 18-19) would require a condition 
that sales of insurance "to customers of its [applicant's] nonbanking 
subsidiaries be limited to no more than 5% of the aggregate insurance 
Premium income of the holding company system sold by a bank or banlc-
tGlated subsidiary." 
. 
' 1 
Since applicant seeks approval to offer its customers 
insurance only in connection with extensions of credit 
(Affirmative Case 6) and asserts that all of its credit-
extending affiliates are either banks or bank-related firms 
of the kind described in Regulation Y, (Applicant's Excep-
tions 4-5), is it the purpose of the above recommended 
condition to apply limitations, similar to those on sales 
of convenience insurance under Section 225.4 (a)(9)(ii)(c), 
to certain sales of credit-related insurance under Section 
225.4(a)(9)(ii)(a)? 
Inasmuch as copies of this communication are being furnished 
0 all parties in this case, and since it constitutes a part of the 
ecord, it i s requested that copies of your response also be directed 
0 a U parties. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
CoPy to all parties 
and/or counsel 

4 0 0 6 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 12 
10/12/73 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265—RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
The Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority presently 
Provide that the Reserve Banks may approve applications under §§ 3(a)(1) 
a n d 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act which meet certain specified 
Criterla. One of these criteria is that the applicant propose to make 
a n equal offer to all shareholders of the bank to be acquired. The 
Ur*ited States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit has held in 
^S^SSlLlancshares, Inc. v. Board of Governors, 480 F. 2d 749 (1973), 
t h at, while it had no argument with the Board's policy determination, 
tl*e Board lacks statutory authority to deny an application under 
t h e Bank Holding Company Act solely on the basis that an equal offer 
h a s n°t been made. A petition for a writ of certiorari from the 
d e cisi 0 n has not been filed and the Board has determined to acquiesce 
i n ^ e Court's holding. Accordingly, the Board is amending the Rules 
warding Delegation of Authority to eliminate this criterion from 
ttle Reserve Bank's consideration of an application. 
In order to accomplish this, § 265.2(f) is amended in the 
'o' 
b l o w i n g respects: 
1. § 265.2(f)(22). Subparagraph (v) is deleted, and 
SubParagraphs (vi) through (xiii) are renumbered (v) through (xii). 

4 0 0 7 
2. § 265.2(f)(24), Subparagraph (v) is deleted, and 
subparagraphs (vi) through (xvii) are renumbered (v) through (xvi). 
3. As an incident to this amendment footnotes 4 and 5 are 
designated as footnotes 2 and 3. 
This amendment is effective immediately. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

4 0 0 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 13 
TW 
10/12/73 
GATES CORPORATION and NORTHERN STATES BANCORPORATION, INC. 
d e t ^PProving Acquisition of Kelly Mortgage and Investment Company 
Twin Gates Corporation ("Twin"), Wilmington, Delaware, and Its 
ubsidiary, Northern States Bancorporation, Inc. ("Northern"), Detroit, 
chigan, bank holding companies within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Com 
* 
P a n y A c t> have applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of 
the Act-
c and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Boardfs Regulation Y, to acquire directly 
lQlrectly 
a n of the voting shares of Kelly Mortgage and Investment 
P a U y atld i t s subsidiaries, Kelly Holding Company and Income Advisory 
C°rPorat- i 
^ 
C3-on, all with head offices in Flint, Michigan (hereinafter col-
d l y referred to as "Company"), a company that engages directly and 
rectly i n the activity of mortgage banking and indirectly in the 
* C t intv nf 
y or acting as advisor to a real estate investment trust. Such 
*ctlvit 
e s have been determined by the Board to be closely related to 
(12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), (3) and (5)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P *
t
s < m s 
t
o 
«a 
K 
-I 
submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
u ly Published (38 Federal Register 21826). The time for filing 
and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Twin controls one bank directly and, through its subsidiary, 
n» indirectly controls two additional banks, which banks have 
* deposits of $733 million, representing 2.9 per cent of total 
S ° s i t 8 in 
I-' 
commercial banks in Michigan. Northern proposes to acquire 
1
6
8
8 
o
t
h
e
r
w
i
s
e 
f
f
n
n
t
W
n
l 
a
r
e 
a « 
o
f 
D e c e m b e r 
3
1
, 
1 9 7 2 . 

-2 
4 0 0 9 
a l 1 of the shares of Company, and, by virtue of section 2(g)(1) of the 
A c t, Twin would be deemed to indirectly control such shares of Company. 
Directly>and indirectly through subsidiaries, Company's activities in-
° l u d e originating and selling mortgage loans to permanent investors, 
Servicing mortgages on business and other nonfarm properties, making 
i n t e r i m construction loans, and serving as advisor to a real estate 
^Vestment trust. Company, with three offices in Michigan, one office 
iri Texas, and one office in Florida, is the 186th largest mortgage 
COr&pany i n t h e N a t i o n i n t e r m s Qf the volume of permanent mortgages 
2/ 
erviced, 
Company has offices located in Lansing and Birmingham, Michigan. 
C°IaPany,s Lansing office is located in the same area as Applicants' sub-
sidiary Bank of Lansing ("Lansing Bank"), while Company's Birmingham 
of£ice i s located in the Detroit SMSA where Applicants' subsidiary, City 
A t o n a l Bank of Detroit ("City National") is located. City National and 
L a n sing Bank each engage in (1) interim construction lending; (2) origina-
fj 
n 
permanent mortgage loans on income producing properties; and (3) 
Agination of permanent mortgage loans on one-to-four family residences. 
^Proximately 90 per cent of Company's total 1972 construction loans were 
*l§inated in the Flint area. Company originated only two permanent 
^ t g a g e loans on income producing properties in the Detroit area and only 
On 
* such loan in the Lansing area in 1972. Company did not originate any 
^gage loans on one-to-four family residences in the Detroit area in 
g - — 
t a regarding mortgage banking ranking are as of June 30, 1972. 

4 0 1 1 
-2-
Moreover, upon consummation of this proposal, Applicants1 have 
committed to increase Company's capital by $1 million. Acquisition of 
C°mpany by Applicants will also likely provide greater access to financial 
markets for Company. Accordingly, Applicants' acquisition of Company 
8bould enable it to offer a broader range of improved services to its 
Customers and increase its competitive effectiveness. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
tha 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
erest factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the applications are hereby approved. This 
termination Is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) 
of R 
eSanation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its sub-
varies as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Pr°visi0ns an(j purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
Months 
The transaction shall be consummated not later than three 
after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chl<*g0. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective October 12, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
and p 
1 Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
Governor Brimmer. 
