MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 5, 1973 

3117 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, September 5, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Chairman Burns' speech at Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
Chairman Burns read portions of the speech he was scheduled to deliver 
on September 8, 1973, on the occasion of the dedication of the new 
building of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. During the ensuing 

. 3418 
9/5/73 
-2-
discussion, suggestions were made regarding approach and emphasis. It 
was understood that these comments would be taken into account in 
preparation of the speech in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. 
A copy of the speech, as presented, has been placed in the Board's files. 
Marginal reserve requirements. At today's meeting, the Board 
continued its discussion of a proposed amendment to Regulation D, Reserves 
of Member Banks, that would increase the marginal reserve requirement on 
certain types of time deposits and related instruments by 3 per cent. 
The issues raised in the discussion of this subject at yesterday's 
meeting were examined further. Opinions varied, especially on the 
advisability of taking such action at this time; on when the amendment, 
if approved, should become effective; and on whether reserve requirements 
on Euro-dollar borrowings should be similarly increased. 
In view of the desire of several Board members to confer with 
members of the Federal Advisory Council to obtain the latest information 
on bank credit availability before reaching a decision on the proposed 
amendment, it was agreed to consider this subject further on September 7, 
1973, following the meeting with the Council on that date. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
