MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 18, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 5 
Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Banks of 
Richmond, Chicago, and St. Louis. 

3675 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, December 18, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Staff presented a review of domestic and international develop-
m°nts of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings of the 
Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical materials 
prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, along 
W l th copies of the individual briefings. 
Members of the staff who had attended the meeting specifically 
the economic review then withdrew. 
1/ °ther officers and staff of the Division also attended portions 
°f the meeting. 

3 6 7 8 
12/18/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. As recommended in a memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated December 14, 1972, the 
Board unanimously approved publication for comment of proposed amend-
ments to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, designed to encourage the 
advertising of specific terms for open end credit. A copy of the 
notice published in the Federal Register is attached under Item No. 1, 
along with a copy of the related press release. 
The Board unanimously approved, for transmittal to the Comptrol-
ler of the Currency, a report on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of Bank of Commerce, Corpus Christi, Texas, and 
Guaranty National Bank and Trust Company of Corpus Christi. The conclu-
sion read as follows: 
There is competition existing between Bank of 
Commerce, Corpus Christi, and Guaranty National Bank 
and Trust of Corpus Christi, and there is potential 
for increased competition between them. The overall 
competitive effect of the proposed transaction would 
be adverse. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of North American 
Mortgage Corporation, St. Petersburg, Florida, to acquire additional 
shares of The American Bank, St. Petersburg, Florida, and authorized 
lSsuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
ls attached as Item No. 2. 
(The order included a determination that 
n° termination would be required in the indefinite grandfather authority 

3677 
12/18/72 
-3-
under the Bank Holding Company Act regarding the nonbanking activities 
of North American Mortgage Corporation.) 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United Banks 
of Wisconsin, Inc., Madison, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of The Kraft 
State Bank, Menomonie, Wisconsin, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of C-M Company, 
Inc., Medicine Lodge, Kansas, (1) to become a bank holding company 
through retention of shares of The Isabel State Bank, Isabel, Kansas; 
ar*d (2) to retain the assets and business of the Clyde S. Boots 
Insurance Agency, Isabel, Kansas. Issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision was also authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Banking Markets Section 
in a memorandum dated December 13, 1972, the Board agreed that Zachary 
Taylor Life Insurance Company, Shreveport, Louisiana, was exempt from 
the prohibitions contained in the Bank Holding Company Act relating to 
Nonbanking interests and that a review of grandfather privileges was 
therefore unnecessary. The Board also authorized issuance of a notice 
t° that effect. A copy of the notice subsequently issued is attached 
a S Item No. 5. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section in a memorandum dated 

3678 
12/18/72 
-4-
December 13, 1972, the Board agreed that no termination should be 
required in the indefinite grandfather authority under the Bank Holding 
Company Act regarding the nonbanking activities of Minnesota Small 
Loan Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota, and authorized issuance of a 
determination to that effect. A copy of the determination subsequently 
issued is attached as Item No. 6. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section in a memorandum dated 
December 13, 1972, the Board agreed that no termination should be 
required in the indefinite grandfather authority under the Bank Holding 
Company Act regarding the nonbanking activities of Memphis Trust Company, 
Memphis, Tennessee, and authorized issuance of a determination to that 
effect. A copy of the determination subsequently issued is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section in a memorandum dated 
December 13, 1972, the Board agreed that no termination should be required 
in the indefinite grandfather authority under the Bank Holding Company 
A ct regarding the nonbanking activities of Zions Utah Bancorporation, 
Salt Lake City, Utah, and authorized issuance of a determination to that 
effeet. A copy of the determination subsequently issued is attached as 
Item]No. 8. 

3679 
12/18/72 
-5-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar and the 
meeting continued from this point with limited staff attendance. 
Discount rate. On December 14, 1972, the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond and Chicago had voted to establish 
a rate of 4-3/4 per cent, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank 
St. Louis a rate of 5 per cent, on discounts for and advances to 
member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, 
subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors. The 
directors of the respective Banks had also acted to establish appro-
priately corresponding subsidiary rates on advances under other sections 
°f the Act. 
In recommending an increase in the discount rate from the current 
level of 4-1/2 per cent, the Reserve Bank directors had expressed concern 
over the widening spread between short-term market interest rates and 
discount rate. While noting with satisfaction the continued strength 
G*hibited by the domestic economy, the directors indicated they were 
c°ncerned about the recent expansion in the monetary aggregates and 
t h ey cited the risks of renewed inflationary expectations. 
In these 
°lrcumstances they concluded that an increase in the discount rate would 
Provide a desirable indication of the System's determination to avoid 
a n overly expansionary monetary policy. 
In response to a question during today's discussion, staff 
reviewed a number of considerations relating to the possible timing of 

3G80 
12/18/72 
-6-
an increase in the discount rate. 
It was noted that the Treasury would 
auction $2 billion of 2-year notes on December 20 and would offer $500 
to $750 million of long-term bonds in early January. This Treasury 
financing schedule suggested to the staff that appropriate timing for 
an increase in the discount rate seemed to be either today or sometime 
around the middle of January 1973. Weighing against an immediate 
increase, however, were the current weakness in stock prices, stimu-
lated by unfavorable developments in the Vietnam peace negotiations, 
and the fact that short-term interest rates did not appear to have 
adjusted fully to the recent increases in the Federal funds rate 
fostered by System open market operations. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the belief that several factors 
could be cited in favor of an increase in the discount rate today. 
These included the current spread between the discount rate and short-
t" A 
rm market rates and the recent rapid increases in the monetary aggre-
gates. Moreover, he foresaw that efforts by the Federal Open Market 
Committee to curb such monetary growth were likely to result in further 
prt-ssure on market interest rates. The expansion in member bank 
G r o w i n g s over the course of recent weeks was also of concern to him 
a n d he felt that any further delay in raising the discount rate should 
be t 
accompanied by tighter administration of the discount window at 
t h e Reserve Banks. 

3681 
12/18/72 
-7-
Goverrior Mitchell added, however, that he saw some Important 
considerations weighing in favor of postponing an increase in the 
discount rate somewhat longer, including those outlined by the staff. 
It was also possible that a rise in the discount rate might not be 
timely from the standpoint of the efforts of the Committee on Interest 
and Dividends to restrain the advance in key administered interest rates. 
If the Board decided to approve a higher rate today, he could vote in 
favor of a 1/4 percentage point increase. On the other hand, he would 
vote against a majority decision to disapprove the proposed 
Increases even though he believed the time for a higher rate was near. 
Governor Daane said he would be opposed to an increase in the 
discount rate today. The Treasury's upcoming financing operations 
argued strongly in his view against approving a higher rate at this 
time. Additionally, he believed there was merit in delaying an increase 
l n light of the fact that market interest rates were still in the process 
adjusting to the recent advance in the Federal funds rate and in the 
Clrcumstances a higher discount rate was likely to be regarded as leading 
rather than following the market. 
He agreed that the strength of the 
Gc°nomy, the growth of the monetary aggregates, and the level of short-
t Gf m interest rates argued in favor of a higher discount rate, but his 
Reference was to disapprove the proposed increases today and to take 
Another hard look at the desirability of raising the rate by 1/4 or 1/2 
centage point in mid-January. 

3682 
12/18/72 
-8-
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that current economic 
developments, the recent acceleration in growth of the monetary aggre-
gates, and the further increases in short-term interest rates provided 
strong justification for a rise in the discount rate. 
In his opinion 
an increase was overdue and he did not want to delay action until mid-
January. His preference would be to approve a 1/4 percentage point 
increase today. He did not anticipate that such an increase would have 
any real impact on market interest rates, since most market participants 
expec ted a higher discount rate and the System's action might serve to 
rGlieve market uncertainties. 
On the other hand, he believed that a 
higher discount rate would be consistent with the market adjustment 
which was currently under way and which appeared to be required by the 
Gconomic situation. 
In addition, a higher rate would help to relieve 
Pressure on the discount window at the Reserve Banks where member bank 
borrowings had risen considerably in recent weeks. 
Governor Bucher observed that several important considerations 
SGemed to justify an increase in the discount rate today, including 
the 
Performance of the economy. 
However, his preference would be to 
uy action for a while longer. He saw a good deal of merit in the 
rgument that an increase at this time would be viewed as leading the 
markoh and he also felt that Treasury financing considerations suggested 
delay until mid-January. Moreover, the weakness of the stock market 
ar»UG , 
u against taking action today. The major reason for a delay in 

3683 
12/18/72 
-9-
his own mind, however, related to the Committee on Interest and Divi-
dends. He felt relatively certain that a rise in the discount rate 
would lead to a rise in bank prime rates and would thereby tend to 
undermine the efforts of the Committee on Interest and Dividends to 
restrain the advance in administered interest rates. 
In sum, he 
favored turning down the proposed rate actions today, but he was 
getting increasingly uncomfortable about the distortions that were 
being created. 
Governor Robertson was of the opinion that the Board should 
aPprove an increase in the discount rate today. 
In his view such an 
action was overdue on economic grounds and he would not want to delay 
I t further. His preference would be to raise the rate by a full 1/2 
Percentage point, as proposed by the St. Louis Bank. He thought such 
atl increase would be in keeping with the situation currently prevailing 
Iri domestic financial markets, and was not likely to contribute in any 
S lgnifi c a n t w a y C o the upward adjustment that was occurring in market 
interest rates. 
Indeed, a 1/4 percentage point increase, by creating 
Uricertainty about further rate actions, might well prove to be more 
Urisettling to the market. 
Further, an increase in the discount rate 
w°lUd underscore the System's determination to resist inflationary 
pres 
°*>ures and would be especially timely in light of the recent bulge 
n the monetary aggregates. 
Finally, he did not think that a discount 

3684 
12/18/72 
-10-
rate action, if announced today, would adversely affect the Treasury's 
forthcoming financing operations. 
Chairman Burns said it was clear to him that the discount rate 
should be raised, if not today then in mid-January. He saw several 
important factors weighing in favor of an increase today, including 
the state of the economy, the recent bulge in the monetary aggregates, 
artcl the spread between the discount rate and short-term market rates. 
An increase in the near future would also be viewed favorably from 
the standpoint of the balance of payments. 
Chairman Burns added, however, that he assigned greater impor-
tance to certain factors that he believed argued against an immediate 
lncrease. 
In particular, he was concerned that an increase might be 
Vlewed as leading rather than following the market if, as the staff had 
Su8gested, market rates were still in the process of adjusting to the 
recent firming actions undertaken by the Desk on behalf of the Federal 
Open Market Committee. 
In his view an interpretation of this kind 
w°uld be most unfortunate from the standpoint of the efforts of the 
^°mmittee on Interest and Dividends to curb the rise in administered 
lnterest rates. The Federal Reserve, as a part of the Government, could 
n o t raise a rate it itself administered unless it was entirely clear 
th 
a t the higher rate represented merely an adjustment to market interest 
t a te developments. 
Otherwise, the Committee on Interest and Dividends 
W° U l d find its ability to exercise moral suasion seriously impaired. 

3685 
12/18/72 
-11-
In a further comment, Chairman Burns observed that the consid-
erations he had just outlined, together with the current weakness in 
the stock market and the Treasury financing schedule, led him to the 
conclusion that on balance he could not support an action to increase 
the discount rate at this time. On the other hand, unless circumstances 
were to change, he would be strongly inclined to approve an increase 
in mid-January. 
In further discussion, members of the Board commented upon 
the role of the Committee on Interest and Dividends and its relation 
to System policy, including the discount rate. Support for the continued 
G*istence of the Committee was unanimously expressed, although some 
Board members felt it should redirect its efforts toward influencing 
the spreads between administered rates and market rates rather than 
absolute level of the former. 
In a final review of positions Governor Robertson indicated he 
c°ulcl support either the 1/4 or the 1/2 percentage point increases 
under consideration today, although his preference would be to raise 
0 rate by the larger amount. Governor Brimmer indicated he would 
SuPport only the 1/4 percentage point increase proposed by the Richmond 
arid Chicago Reserve Banks; he would vote against a 1/2 point increase. 
The Board thereupon disapproved the increases in the discount 
ta to 
• Proposed by the three Reserve Banks, Governors Robertson and 
mmer dissenting. 
It was agreed that a letter setting forth the 

3686 
12/18/72 
- 1 2 -
reasons for the Board's decision would be drafted and sent to the 
respective Reserve Banks after review by the individual members of 
the Board. It was also understood that the substance of the letter, 
without identification of the Reserve Banks involved, would be communi-
cated to all the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents. A copy of the letter 
subsequently sent to the three Reserve Banks and a copy of the memo-
randum sent to the Bank Presidents are attached as Items 9 and 10. 
Other discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on December 11 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on December 14, 
1972, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules 
W a s approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

7 I • (?/>: 
3 6 8 ? 
ilrr.'i 
& Ul }l 
M e d i a t e release 
Item No. 1 
12/18/72 
December 19, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve fjystera today 
P>'°r'CSOfi t o a^eml its Truth in Lending Regulation 7, so as to encourage 
'•he .1,],,.,.,. . . 
• ^-cisyng of specific terms for open end credit. Comment en the 
should be received by the Board by January 31, 1973. 
Regulation Z now generally provides that if a specific credit 
advavtised, all other credit terms must also be shewn. Because 
thc> amount: of information, now required, creditors have for the most: 
i'a x't-
• c; po.d advertising op on end credit plans — such as 
charge 
v 
?ilv- 
credit cards — other than in a general. way. 
proposed amendment would reduce the amount of 
info mat 
1m 
Cto.ri ji _ 
o r 
furnish, once a specific term is used, to the minimum 
••^ents of the Tr.nLh in Lending Act, thus encouraging creditor.? to 
' 
dPacific provisions of their credit plans and giving consumers 
opportunity to compare credit terms. 
Once a specific, term is used, creditors wou? d st)'Jl be 
t:ts„, 
' 
the annual percentage rate, any free-ride ueriod, the ret hod 
dr.* 
j.manee charges and balances on which finance charges arc 
v n 
. 
* 
per toe or repayment (for example, "up to 24 months to pav 
o c •>. | 
*• ^ '-eo as & verm requiring full 4escrj.nCi.cn of the plan in open 
^tCtf ' 1- , i 
r'tlve-/'f.» ing (51. is presently a 5;t.t i.g;;arin^" terw in advertising 
(.' ^ f-, A 
- •••"•one 
* 
' »->-«« •» 
. 
k,--, j 
.>*> ,. . . . 
. . . 
(
 
v** •>•'• • -— t - «kv V «. 
o . >», ..'A. i <J W«JV/I» 0<. y I..|;1H IvCU 1.11 OC '.' i J. 
sii:av' tern which triggers the full di-tcXos urc. '.» 

3688 
-2~ 
Cr«<Ut advertising since the term is Implied in almost any statement made 
such credit plans. 
The proposal, a copy of which is attached, would also make 
technical and clarifying changes in the Regulation. 
- 0 -

3 6 8 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR PART 225] 
[Reg. Z] 
TRUTH IN LENDING 
Advertising 
1. Pursuant to t;bc. authority contained in the Truth in 
Act (15 U.S.C. & 16C1 at seq.), the Board of Governors proposes 
t o amend Part 226 (Regulation Z) in the manner and for the reasons 
0 e t forth below: 
Amend §§ 226.6(a), 226.10(c) ar.d 226.10(d) to r e a d as follows: 
5 ?^.G~~GEK£RAL DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS 
(a) Disclosures; general rule. The disclosures required to 
Si veil, by this Part shall be made clearly, conspicuously, in mean-
sequence, in accordance with the further requirements of this 
a n d a t t«ae time and in the terminology prescribed in applicable 
°e<iUons. 
Except with respect to the requirements of § 226.10, where 
th* t*vxpo "finance charge" and "annual percentage rate" are required 
l° 
usfed, they shall be printed more conspicuously thru other term-
n°XoSy inquired by this Part c>v.d all numerical amounts and per,ccni-
**** shall be stated in figures and shall be printed in not less than 
th b i v a l e n t of 10 point type, .075 inch computer type, or elite 
£>4 • 
lyp*wrU:Lon nuwera)*, ot shell 
L«gJbly handwritten. 

3630 
-2-
§ 226.10—ADVERTISING CREDIT TERMS 
* 
* 
* 
* 
( c ) Advertising of open end credit. No advertisement, to 
aid> promote, or assist directly or indirectly the extension of open 
credit may set forth any of the termo described in paragraph (a) 
° f 5 226.V, the Comparative Index of Credit Cost, or that a specified 
dcv'uPaywent or periodic payment is required (either in dollars or as 
a Petcentage), the- period of repayment or any of the following items, 
it a ] y o clearly and conspicuously ;;ets forth all the following 
it •> 
in terminology prescribed under paragraph (b) of § 226.7: 
(1) An explanation of the tina period, if any, within 
any credit extended may be paid without incurring a finance 
(2) The method of determining the balance upon which a 
>K"S cUarge nay be imposed. 
(3) The method of determining the amount of the finance 
including the determination of any minimum, fixed, check service, 
k,yaction4 activity, or similar charge, which may be imposed as a 
8 s. 
(4) Where or-o. or more periodic rates may be used to compute. 
-nr,r.ec charge, the corresponding annual percentage rate determined 
the periodic rote by the number of periods In a year. 

3691 
-3-
(d) Advertising of crcdit other than open end. No adver-
tisement to aid, promote, or assist directly or indirectly any credit 
including the sale of residential real estate, loan, or other 
-tension of credit, other than open end credit, subject to the 
Provisions of this Port, shall state 
(1) The rate of the finance charge except as an "annual 
R e n t a g e rate," using that terra. No other rate of finance charge may 
stated$ except that: 
(1) where the total finance charge includes, as a component, 
•cteat coirputed at a simple annual rate, the simple annual rate may 
in conjunction with, hut not more conspicuously than, the 
• - - por, can cage ra te, or 
(ii) where the finance charge is computed merely by the 
^Hcatiori of a periodic rate to an unpaid balance, the periodic rate 
tnay 
, 
stated in conjunction with, but not more conspicuously than, 
annual percentage rate. 
(2) That no downpayment is required, or the amount of the 
a«*wnpav 
• yniont or of any instalment payment required (either in dollars 
as a percentage), the dollar amount c.f any finance charge, the 
* instalments or the period of repayment, or that there is no 
° r credit, unless it also clearly and conspicuously sees forth 
f! 
Mie following items in terminology prescribed under fi 226.3: 
(i) the cash price or the amount of: the loan, as applicable. 
( H ) in a credit a&hi, 
ihc amount of the dowipayment required 
•JCl c'ownpayweni is required, a*, applicable. 

. 3 6 9 2 
-4-
(iii) the. number, amount, and due dates or period or payments 
Gchedulecl to repay the indebtedness if the credit is extended. 
(Iv) the amount of the finance charge expressed as an annual 
pQ*ccntego rate. The exemptions from disclosure of an annual percentage 
*ate permitted in paragraph (b)(2) of § 226.8 shall not apply to this 
d i v i s i o n . 
(v) except in the case of the sale of a dwelling or a loan 
loured by a first lien on a dwelling to purchase that dwelling, the 
payment price in a credit sale, or the tctal of payments In c 
lojir> or other extension of credit which is net a credit sale, as applicable. 
2. The proposed amendments are designed to stimulate the 
C'<iir,PetU:>vA advertising of ^pacific open end credit terms. They would also 
•imoniKft the. separata requirement* for open and clored end credit, wnere 
^'"oprinte. 
In addition, numerous technical changes are proposed. 
3. Section 226.6(a) has been clarified to provide that the 
^Ir^tT'.ent; the'; the '"'annual percentage rate" and "finance charge" be shown 
UtOfr, 
" c°r»cpi.eyoxi3ly than other terminology does not apply to advertising 
tj-j 
such r requirement may be either impractical (ejv , in radio acver-
*a°Ifents) or inequitable (where a creditor wishes to emphasize a favorable 
tiw _ 
tor competitive purpose:;) 
However, an addition lias been made tc 
* c«.tO(d) opacifying that all required disclosures must be made "clearly 
^•••'picuour.lyTh\? requirement • (which is already contained in 
§ 
0.0(c) with respect ro open end credit) would prevent the advertiser 
v,n b>i*yiag th* required disclosures with insufficient emphasis in the 
C c v«-'He advert Ismn^nt. 

3833 
i 
i 
4* The amendments would simplify § 226.10(c) by deleting 
the 
present requirements of showing a number of item.? in open end 
: advertisements once a specific credit terra is advertised. The 
dieted terma are the periodic rates, the range of balances to which 
is applicable, the conditions under which other charges may be 
imposed, the method by which the other charges will be determined, and 
minimum periodic payment required. The simplification is intended 
t o encourage the advertising of specific open end credit terms. Such 
adv®ttt3ements would still have to include the annual percentage rates, 
ar*y free ride period, and the method of determining finance charges 
a n d the balances on which they are imposed. "No downpayment" has been 
v*aov<»d as a specific tern which triggers full disclosure since the 
t e t m is implied in almost any statement about an open end credit plan 
"charge it: with your credit card." 
5. The "period of repayment" has been added to § 226.10(c) 
** <*e of the specific terms requiring full disclosure. This harmonizes 
th<i requirements of open end credit with those presently applicable to 
C l 0 G<* end credit. 
6. Section 226.10(d)(1) would clarify the fact, that any 
Llfpreosion of the finance charge on an annual basis in closed end 
C t e d U mast solely be as an "annual percentage rate" and not in 
C°ll1urictiQrt> f o r e j s a w p l e, with the add-on rate. However, the simple 
r,t€*eat component of the finance charge could bo shown along with the 
*naUftl- Percentage rate. For example, the interest rate on a heme mortgage 

3634 
-6-
also be sdvertiaed where points may result in a higher annuel 
Rentage rate. Likewise, where finance charges are computed based 
the application of a periodic rate, that rote mey be shown in 
c°n.1vin.sti.on with the annual percentage rate—e.%. , a monthly periodic 
inese additional rates ^ould not, however, be shown more con-
'"Mcuoaly than the APR, 
7. Sections 226.10(c) cad 226.10(d)(2) would be clarified 
1 
v~ce that advertisement of the amount of the downpayment or other 
4 
either in dollars or percentages, would trigger the full 
sure requirements (whether or not the cash price was also given), 
i'hct \ i, J 
••quirement for closed end credit: that the amount of the dewnpayment 
• ; given once f jXX disclosure is otherwise triggered has been 
A t 0 i^fer only to credit sales. (0 226.10(d)(2) (it)). 
The 
U h a s 
been modified to specify that the "deferred payment 
4»sclosure is required in a credit sale, while the "total of 
^yjQQtits" -r 
required in a loan or other non-sale transaction. 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of 
' un-t:ri<2 States Code, and S 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure 
-
^cid ov Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)) 
T o aid in the consideration of these matters by the Board, 
e«t:ed persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
c 
* 
6 u c h material should be submitted 
in writing to the 
» t;he board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Svstcm, 
" 
C" 
20*51, r to any Federal Reserve Bank for transmittal 

-7-
• t o the Board, to be received at the Board not later than January 31, 1973. 
material will be made available for inspection and copying upon 
Request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Regarding 
Pliability of Information. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 18* 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

3G9S 
Item No. 2 
12/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NORTH AMERICAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Additional Shares in Bank 
North American Mortgage Corporation, St, Petersburg, Florida, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act» has applied for the Boardfs approval under section 3(a)(3) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire an additional 27.1 per cent of 
v°ting shares of The American Bank, St. Petersburg, Florida 
("American Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls the American National Bank of Clearwater, 
Clearvater, Florida ("American National"), with deposits of $13.4 
mtxi-f 
representing approximately 0.1 per cent of total commercial 
dep 
1/ 
S1ts in the State. 
Applicant recently obtained Board approval 
acquire 23.9 per cent of the voting shares of The American Bank, 
Petersburg, Florida ("American Bank") a proposed new bank (1972 
% R e s« Bulletin 727). Acquisition of an additional 27.1 per cent 
of th 
n e voting shares of American Bank from Applicant^ chairman will 
S u l t in Applicant's having a 51 per cent majority interest in bank, 
K 
Banking data are as of June 30, 1972. 

_ 3 6 9 ? 
-2-
and will not adversely affect competition in the relevant area nor 
s^8nificantiy increase Applicant's share of total deposits in the 
r®levant area or within the State. 
Applicant proposes to pay the same price for the additional 
per cent of the voting shares of American Bank as the subscription 
Prlce paid for its original shares; an equal offer has been made to 
^ u i t e all of the remaining outstanding shares of American Bank. 
^ug> ttle B o a r d concludes that the transaction would not be detrimental 
to 
minority stockholders of American Bank. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
* APPlicant. 
American National, and American Bank are generally 
8atisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. Con-
Nations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to K 
served are also consistent with approval of the application. The 
*0atd fin(js that the proposed application is in the public interest and 
be approved. 
Applicant is engaged in certain nonbanking activities, in-
mortgage banking and operation of a general insurance agency, 
e its chairman and principal stockholder owns and operates a savings 
A°an association (Guaranty Federal Savings & Loan Association, St. 
rsburg). Mortgage banking and insurance agency activities fall 
^ i n the proviso in § 4(a)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as 
^ d e d , the so-called "grandfather" provision under which the Board 
te*minate such "grandfather" privileges if, having due regard to 

3SS8 
-3-
the purposes of the Act, the Board determines that such action is 
necessary to prevent undue concentration of resources, decreased or 
Ut*fair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking 
practices. Accordingly, the Board has reviewed the activities of 
applicant for the purpose of determining whether the combination of 
ar*king aiMi nonbanking interests in Applicant's holding company system 
w°uld be likely to have an adverse effect on the public interest. 
^°tice of the Board's proposed review of the "grandfather" privileges 
N°rth American Mortgage Corporation ("North American"), and an oppor-
Untty for interested persons to submit comments and views or request a 
**earing w a s gi v e n (37 Federal Register 21382). The time for filing 
^ents, views and requests has expired, and none have been received. 
Applicant is engaged in business only in Florida with its 
activities conducted in the "Tampa Bay" area. North American 
et*gaged in the origination of mortgage loans of one to four family 
^ s id 
Qential homes, over 99 per cent of which are of the VA-FHA category. 
aranty Federal Savings & Loan Association is also engaged in the 
N a t i o n of residential loans, specializing in conventional loans. 
North American and Guaranty Federal originated but 2.2 per 
the 
total mortgage originations in St. Petersburg in 1971. Thus, 
two organizations would appear to have a negligible effect on 
^Petition for residential mortgages in the St. Petersburg area. 
er> it is estimated that Applicant writes about 1 per cent of the 
tot*l rv 
Premium volume of insurance in the St. Petersburg area, where its 
insUr 
atlce agency operations are conducted. It appears that the volume, 

3 6 2 2 
-4-
ScoPe, and nature of the activities of Applicant and its subsidiaries do 
n o t indicate an undue concentration of resources nor is there any evidence 
° r e tl>e Board of decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
°r unsound banking practices. 
There appears to be no reason to require Applicant to cease en-
d i n g i n the activities it engages in directly4 nor to require Applicant 
terminate its interests in its subsidiaries, However, this determina-
tion . 
1 8 not authority to enter into any activity Applicant was not engaged 
ot> T 
J une 30, 1968, and continuously thereafter, or any activity that is 
Hot th 
n e subject of this determination. It is the Board's judgment that at 
thi8 t. 
e termination of the "grandfather" privileges of Applicant is not 
8sary in order to prevent an undue concentration of resources, de-
°r unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking 
practiCGR 
A significant alteration in the nature or extension of Ap-
plicant , 
8 activities, or a change in location thereof (significantly 
^^ferent- c 
trom any described in this determination), will be cause 
fo* a r 
^-evaluation by the Board of Applicant's activities under the 
P r°v l 8 l o n 
of § 4(a)(2) of the Act, whenever the alteration or change 
Such th 
cnat the Board finds that a termination of the grandfather 
P r i n u g e 3 . 
is necessary to prevent an undue concentration of resources 
o f the other evils designated in the Act, No merger or 
of assets, other than in the ordinary course of business, 
* a 
isition of any interest in a going concern to which the Ap~ 
o r 
any nonbank subsidiary thereof is a party, may be consummated 
H t V t Prior approval of the Board. Further, the provision of any credit, 

: 3700 
-5-
Pr°perty or service by the Applicant or any subsidiary thereof shall not 
be subject to any condition which, if imposed by a bank, would constitute 
a m 
unlawful tie-in arrangement under section 106 of the Bank Holding Com-
P 3 n y A ct Amendments of 1970. 
The determination herein does not preclude a later review by " 
the Board of Applicant's nonbanking activities, and a future determination 
by the Board in favor of termination of "grandfather" benefits of Ap-
pllcant. This determination is subject to the Board's authority to re-
(*Uilfe edification or termination of the activities of Applicant or any 
of u 
nonbanking subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure 
°mPHance vjith the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
^ulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
* reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
k) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
s °tder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
thig #* 
urder unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by j., 
e federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
i! 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
( S ^ 
Secretary of the Board 
it VQtT**~"*~"~~ 
oj^hall8 f o r this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
' D a a n e» Brimmer and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor 

3701 
Item No. 3 
12/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED BANKS OF WISCONSIN, INC, 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Banks of Wisconsin, Inc., Madison, Wisconsin, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPUed for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
X842(a)(3)) to acquire 95 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
K r a ft State Bank, Menomonie, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Pets°ns to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ ^ 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
tlle Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
°f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls two banks with aggregate deposits of approxi-
a t e l y $47.4 million, representing 0.4 per cent of total deposits of 
0n»iercial banks in Wisconsin. (All banking data are as of December 31, 
Consummation of the proposal herein would increase Applicant's 
pr°Portion of State deposits by only 0.1 percentage point and accordingly 
a n°t result in a significant increase in the concentration of banking 
° U r ces in Wisconsin. 
Bank ($10.5 million in deposits) is the smallest of three banks 
in the city of Menomonie and holds approximately 24 per cent of deposits 
6rein. it i g t h e n i n t h iargest of fourteen banks in the relevant bank-
ing 
1/ 
arket 
w l t h 3 > 8 p e r c e n t o f deposits in that area. Applicant's 
clatr
e relevant banking market is comprised of Dunn County, western Eau 
e County, southwestern Chippewa County, and northern Pepin County. 

13702 
-2-
nearest subsidiary office to Bank is in Madison, Wisconsin, more than 
miles northwest of Menomonie. The record indicates that there is 
n o significant existing competition between Bank and Applicant and that 
it i 
1 3 unlikely such competition \*ould develop in the future in view of 
distances involved and the many intervening banks. The Board notes 
the proposed acquisition represents Applicant's initial entry into 
til 
e Menomonie market. On the basis of the record before it, the Board 
deludes that consummation of the proposal would not result in any 
*Snificant increase in concentration of banking resources in Wisconsin, 
r have any adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant (which are 
ar8ely dependent upon those of its subsidiary banks) as well as those of 
a*e generally satisfactory in view of a commitment by Applicant to 
^ e c t additional equity capital into its lead bank and Bank. Future 
8Pects for all are favorable and consistent with approval. Although 
e banking needs of the community appear adequately served at the present 
a 
• Applicant proposes to expand Bank's direct and indirect instalment 
^ 
« 
trust services. It is the Board's Judsnent that the proposed 
would be in the public interest and that the application 
8 V l d u 
oe approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
^^Ofio 
18 summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
c«e thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 

3703 
-3-
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
ttle Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 18, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
p 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
atle, Brimmer and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Sheehan. 

3704 
Item No. 4 
12/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE C-M COMPANY, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Retention of Insurance Agency 
The C-M Company, Inc., Medicine Lodge, Kansas, has applied for 
tV'e Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 
U,S-C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through the 
Mention of 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Isabel State 
Batlk» Isabel, Kansas ("Bank"). 
At the same time Applicant has applied for the Board's approval 
Utlde* § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y 
to et*gage in insurance agency activities through the retention of the assets 
the business of the Clyde S. Boots Insurance Agency, Isabel, Kansas 
Agency"). 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in accordance 
W l t h §§ 3 and 4 of the Act (37 Federal Register 2807 and 23223), and the 
tllne for filing comments and views has expired. The Board has considered 
th* ^Plications and all comments received in the light of the facts set 
in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations 
R i f l e d in § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and finds that: 
Applicant presently sells credit life, health, and accident 
S t a n c e , and general fire and casualty insurance in Isabel, Kansas (popula-
i,. 
1 / 
n 175), and is requesting approval to retain ownership of Bank. 
Bank, 
i T ^ l l a y 1, 1971, Applicant, without prior Board approval, acquired the 
t!ates of Bank which it has applied to retain. On June 22, 1971, the Board, 
to avoid impositions of undue hardship, ordered that any company 
ti c h acquired a bank between December 31, 1970, and June 22, 1971, without 
St securing prior Board approval because of lack of knowledge of that 

3705 
a. 
W i t a deposits of $1.3 million, controls 2.5 per cent of deposits in the 
^tatt banking market and is the fifth largest of seven banks in that 
Market. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1971.) 
The First National Bank of Medicine Lodge, Medicine Lodge, Kansas 
^ d i c i n e Bank"), with deposits of about $11.9 million, is affiliated with 
v through common ownership of shares in each Bank by principals of Appli-
• Although Bank and Medicine Bank are located in the same banking market, 
ach Primarily serves a different area and the banks are separated by a 
Stance of 20 miles. Therefore, Applicant's acquisition of Bank did not 
^inate significant existing or potential competition and it does not 
8T\ 
a r that there has been any adverse effect on any bank in the area. 
The Board has previously expressed its concern about debt resulting 
0lu ^ e acquisition of a bank (1971 Federal Reserve Bulletin 676 and 750). 
Altu 
0uSh Applicant incurred debt in its acquisition of Bank and Agency, 
^ieant has reduced its debt significantly since that time. In addition, 
^icant has submitted data which indicates that through dividends from 
ar*d income from Agency, it will be able to retire the remaining acqui-
° n debt without adversely affecting Applicant or putting an undue strain 
°ft Ba 
Accordingly, financial and managerial considerations as they 
a t e to Applicant, Bank, and Agency are consistent with approval of the 
*PPUC 
'°n't. from preceding page) 
m e n t m i S h t f i l e f o r s u c h approval by August 31, 1971. Applicant 
S ^ t l y lacked knowledge of the requirements of the Act at the time it 
\ 
the shares of Bank, and had filed a tentative application with 
FSderal Reserve Bank of Kansas City by August 31, 1971. 

1 3708 
-3-
Approval of this application will ensure continued operation and 
local ownership of Bank. Since Bank is the only bank in the small community 
Isabel, factors relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
involved weigh in favor of approval of the application. It is the Board's 
^udgment that the transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
apPlication to acquire Bank should be approved. 
Applicant sells credit life, health, and accident insurance and 
pr°Poses to retain Agency's business. Agency is the only general insurance 
a community of approximately 175 people, and sells general fire 
casualty insurance. Acting as a general insurance agent or broker in a 
Coi%unity of less than 5,000 people is an activity that the Board has pre-
iously determined by regulation to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 
•4(a)(9)). Although principals of Applicant operate an insurance agency 
n Medicine 
Lodge, Kansas, the agencies are separated by a distance of 20 
s and each serves primarily its own locality. Accordingly, approval of 
S aPPlication will not have an adverse effect on either existing or 
P°teiU:iai competition. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation of 
the pr°Posal would result in any undue concentration of resources, decreased 
ot 
Ufai-r competition, unsound banking practices, or other adverse effects 
th 
a e Public interest. It appears that the operation of Agency in conjunc-
t-ton 
W i th Bank will ensure the continuation of banking and insurance agency 
Vic*s in isabel. Based upon the foregoing and other considerations 
e c t ed in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the 
interest factors that the Board is required to consider regarding the 
CqUisiti0n of Agency under § 4(c)(8) is favorable and that the application 
u 
approved. 

3707 
-4-
On the basis of the record, the applications to retain Bank and 
A g e n cy are approved for the reasons summarized above. The transaction with 
resPect to Bank shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
d a y following the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three 
^nths after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
f°r good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Pu*suant to delegated authority. The determination as to Agency's activi-
t i e s is subject to the Board's authority to require reports by, and make 
laminations of, holding companies and their subsidiaries and to require 
SUctl modification or termination of the activities of a holding company 
°r ariy of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
11 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SE A L ] 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^ e V 1 , 
D a n n e » Brimmer, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor 
an. 

3708 
Item No. 5 
12/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ZACHARY TAYLOR LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
"Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C, 1043) 
pr°vides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect 
to 
n°nbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amend-
^ftts to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Hold-
inB Company Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered 
n *97Q" may continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, 
n°nbanking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on 
e 30, 1963 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1963, in the case of 
tlvities carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company or 
bsidiary, pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on or 
e June 30, 1960, of another company engaged in such activities at 
the tim 
«ne of the acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in 
itlCe June 30, 1963 (or such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
Of Qq 
vernors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
eBes if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
^tetnrt 
*nes that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentration 
°urces, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
Unsound banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a 
b*nk Wif-U 
i Ln assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
the g ard is required to make such a determination within a two year 

3709 
- 2 -
Notice of the Board's proposed review of any grandfather 
privileges 0f the zachary Taylor Life Insurance Company, Shreveport, 
k°uisiana, and an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
a n d vi^ws or request a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414). The 
e 
filing comments, views, and requests has expired, and all those 
e°eived have been considered by the Board in light of the factors set 
forth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
Zachary Taylor Life Insurance Company, Shreveport, Louisiana 
("R 
e8istrant"), became a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as 
tesult of the 1970 Amendments to the Act, by virtue of Registrant's 
nership of 38.5 per cent of the voting shares of Pioneer Bank and 
r u s t Company, Shreveport, Louisiana (assets of $70.2 million as of 
j1, 1970), and would have been a bank holding ootftpany on June 30, 
* 
the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act had been ' * Vl 
* n a C t e d 
that date. 
In connection with the Board's review of Registrant, facts 
co the Board show that more than 35 per cent of the voting 
8 W e s of t> 
Registrant was owned by members of the same family on 
> 1963, and has been continuously so owned since that date. On 
t h l s bacH 
as3-s, the Board concludes that Registrant is exempt, by virtue 
Of j 
of the Act, from the prohibitions relating to nonbanking 
lnt<*eatH 
contained in § 4 of the Act; and a Board review of grandfather 
eSes of Registrant under the proviso of § 4(a)(2) of the Act is 
° a ry in view of such exemption. 

3710 
-3-
The conclusion contained herein is based upon the facts pre-
8 e n t e d to the Board, and any material change in those facts may result 
in a different conclusion. 
Board of Governors, December 29, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 

3711 
Item No. 6 
12/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MINNESOTA SMALL LOAN COMPANY 
Determination Regarding "Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Ptovidp 
es certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect 
n°nbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amend-
ments t-
c o the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding 
Co 
P a n y 
Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 
1970" m a 
m ay continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, 
noi*banking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on 
June 30 
u> 1968 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of 
activitn 
•••es carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company 
ubsidiary, pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on 
Of k^jr 
0 r e June 30, 1968, of another company engaged in such activities 
time of the acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in 
U ne 30, 1968 (or such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
Ve*nors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
^tetTnl 
n e s that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentration 
of t 
°u^ces, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, 
Of ^ 
°und banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a 
u n assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
^ fin 
® required to make such a determination within a two year period, 

3712 
-2-
Notice of the Board's proposed review of the grandfather 
P r l v U e g e s of the Minnesota Small Loan Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
and an 
opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
r request a hearing has been given (37 F.R. 22414). The time for filing 
c°mment<j 
a> views, and requests has expired, and all those received have been 
COjjQJ J 
ere<* by the Board in light of the factors set forth in 5 4(a)(2) of 
t h e Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following findings. 
^inne8ota c 
H 
Small Loan Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota ("Registrant"), 
became a h a , L „ 
°anic holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of the 1970 
^ndmentc, 
u 
t h e Act, by virtue of Registrant's ownership of approximately 
68'5 Per o 
cent of the outstanding voting shares of First National Bank of 
SioUx C l 
cy» Sioux City, Iowa ("Bank") (assets of $92.6 million as of Decem-
b 
1970), Bank, control of which was acquired by Registrant in Septem-
1967 
ua* 
» n ad total deposits of $78.2 million as of June 30, 1972, representing 
ab°Ut 24 n Per cent of the total deposits in the immediate Sioux City area 
(vhich i 
ncludes the towns of South Sioux City, Nebraska, and Sargeant Bluff, 
a nk is the second largest of the seven banks located in Sioux Citv, 
*S 
as • 
second among the ten banks in the immediate Sioux City area. Bank's 
d e m e n t » financial condition, and prospects are regarded as satisfactory, 
the Bo 
a rd has found no evidence of any unsound banking practices. 
tQCauSe Met 1 3 , 1 9 7 2 ' R e 8 i s t r a n t became a subsidiary of MEI Corporation. 
*lo 
b e c a m e a bank holding company with respect to Bank subsequent 
*n\> e n t itlL 3 1 , 1 9 7 0 ( p u rsuant to the Board's Order of May 
1972), ME I is 
or ? t 0 8 r a n d f a t h e r privileges and is required to divest its interest 
^ Up°n w M 
s n o n b a n k i n £ interests by July 13, 1974, two years from the 
v m c h it became a bank holding company. 

3713 
-3-
Registrant (total assets of $7.7 million, as of December 31, 1971) 
Is a small loan company and engages directly in making consumer loans and, 
to 
a limited extent, engages in selling credit life, health and accident 
durance related to such loans, and apparently has engaged in such activities 
c°ntinuously since before June 30, 1968. Bank is the only subsidiary of 
^gistrant. Registrant conducts its small loan business from its sole 
office, located in Minneapolis, Minnesota. In addition to serving local 
^sumex 
St, 
°nsumers, Registrant makes consumer loans to school teachers in a thirty 
"ate area through a mail order business. Registrant did not rank as one 
of t, 
n e 150 largest finance companies in the United States as of December 31, 
971 (the most recent data available). Registrant's income in 1971, from 
int 
The 
6 r e st and Insurance commissions on small loan operations, was $0.6 million. 
size of Registrant's total lending operation is not substantial (about 
$2 
' ^ U i o n in receivables as of December 31, 1971), and the number of 
local 
^ sources for consumer credit is diverse (20 firms with offices in the 
Mi 
area, including 6 of the 10 largest finance companies in the 
C°Ul>try. 
On the basis of the foregoing and all the facts before the Board, 
lt aPPears t h a t t h e volume, scope, and nature of the activities ,f 
d n t and its subsidiarv do not demonstrate an undue concentration 
°f tea 
°urces, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest nor 
u a banking practices. 
There appears to be no reason to require Registrant to terminate 
its 
grandfathered activities. It is the Board's judgment that, at this time, 
^ i n ation of the grandfather privileges of Registrant is not necessary in 

3714 
-4-
order 
prevent an undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair 
mPetition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. However, 
this 
8 determination is not authority to enter into any activity that was not 
8aged in on June 30, 1968 and continuously thereafter, or any activity 
that io 
A a not the subject of this determination, nor authority for Registrant 
en$age in any additional type of insurance agency activity. 
A significant alteration in the nature or extension of Registrant's 
*ctiviti(1 
s o r a change in location thereof (significantly different from 
^scribed in this determination) will be cause for a re-evaluation by 
the B°ard of Registrant's activities under the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of 
the ^ t t-u 
» that is, whenever the alteration or change is such that the Board 
^inds th 
a t a termination of the grandfather privileges is necessary to pre-
V e n t an „„,» 
unaue concentration of resources or any of the other evils designated 
the Art-
No merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets other than in 
binary course of business, nor acquisition of any interest in a 
&°tng C o ncern, to which the Registrant or any nonbank subsidiary thereof 
a 
Partyt m a y k e consummated without prior approval of the Board. Further, 
the pr 
sion of any credit, property, or service by the Registrant or 
*ny ^bsirf, 
aiary thereof shall not be subject to any condition which, if 
bv 
u 
y a bank, would constitute an unlawful tie-in arrangement under 
1 0 6 Of th. , 
L ne Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
The determination herein does not preclude a later review, 
the B o 
. 
arc*, of Registrant's nonbank activities and a future determination 
V ^ 
Bo 
a rd in favor of termination of grandfather benefits of Registrant. 

3715 
-5-
Th 
e determination herein is subject to the Board's authority to require 
modu 
finds 
°diflcation or termination of the activities of Registrant as the Board 
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
t^g * 
and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to pre-
vent- evasions thereof. 
2/ 
By determination of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 4 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
{sEAL] 
^ n e ^ 8 
f o r t h l s a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
» Brimmer, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Sheehan. 

3716 
Item No. 7 
12/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MEMPHIS TRUST COMPANY 
Determination Regarding "Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
pr°vides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect to 
n°nbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amend-
s to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank 
ing Company Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company 
Ve*ed in 1970" may continue to engage, either directly or through a 
subsa 
larY» in nonbanking activities that such a company was lawfully 
nga8ed in on June 30, 1968 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, 
in 
case of activities carried on as a result of the acquisition by 
such 
company or subsidiary, pursuant to a binding written contract 
6 n t«*i into on or before June 30, 1968, of another company engaged in 
such 
activities at the time of the acquisition), and has been continu-
ous;^ 
y engaged in since June 30, 1968 (or such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the 
8°a*d t\f n 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such 
^ndfai, 
**ther privileges if, having due regard to the purposes of the 
Act, t h 
ue Board determines that such action is necessary to prevent 
concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, 
c ts of interest, or unsound banking practices. With respect 
t0 * c 
c°mPany that controls a bank with assets in excess of $60 
°n or after December 31, 1970, the Board is required to make 
determination within a two year period. 

3717 
-2-
Notice of the Board's proposed review of the grandfather 
Priviiegeg Qf Memphis Trust Company, Memphis, Tennessee, and an 
Pportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views or 
t e q u e s t a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414 and 25204). The 
e for filing comments, views, and requests has expired, and all 
received have been considered by the Board in light of the 
f a C t o r s set forth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following 
fir 
ndings. Memphis Trust Company, Memphis, Tennessee ("Registrant") 
icar 
1970 
becam 
e a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of the 
Amendments to the Act, by virtue of Registrant's ownership of 100 
Per °ent of the outstanding voting shares of Memphis Bank & Trust 
Jai 
°mPanys Memphis, Tennessee ("Bank") (assets of approximately $62 
L0II» as of December 31, 1970). Registrant's total consolidated 
amounted to less than $85 million on December 31, 1971. 
rant also owns 22 per cent of the voting shares of Farmers 
d Merchants Bank, Bruce, Mississippi and 24.3 per cent of the First 
**ati0n 
U 
n al Bank, Southaven, Mississippi. 
Bank, control of which was 
q U i r e d by Registrant in February, 1952, had total deposits of 
Ppr°Ximately $68 million as of December 31, 1971, representing about 
3 Per 
cent of the total deposits in the seven commercial banks in 
% h i s 
s* Each of five of said seven banks is affiliated with a bank 
lnt 
l o c k o f directors between this bank and Registrant as well as 
c0n1pa
 erlock of directors between Registrant and Financial Development 
a registered bank holding company owning more than 50 per cent 
trant
e shares of the Southaven Bank, is being reviewed by the Board. Regis-
*n<l 
c°ntends 
that it owns no shares of Financial Development Company 
the company is in no way subject to control or a controlling 
^ s ^ 0 6 by Registrant. Registrant disclaims control of each of the 
l n which Registrant owns a minority interest. 

3718 
-3-
°lding company. Bank ranks fourth among the 14 banking organizations 
n 
Memphis banking market. Bank's management, financial condition, 
nd Prospects are regarded as generally satisfactory. 
Registrant was engaged on June 30, 1968, and has been 
nga8ed continuously thereafter, in the following activities: 
the 
^uisition and leasing of real property for use by the holding company 
and i t s subsidiaries, the sale of commercial paper to finance holding 
CoinPanv 
y operations, the investment of 5 per cent or less in the shares 
0f Vari 
ous corporations, the operation of an industrial loan company, 
nancing of dealer inventories, buying installment notes from 
s» extending short-term credit to businesses, making first and 
Sec°nd 
mortgage real estate loans, and leasing personal property. 
*ncome f 
rrom all these sources amounts to about 7 per cent of Registrant's 
totai 0 Perating income. In addition, Registrant has 4 nonbanking 
S U b sid i aw 
1/ 
^ies, 
namely, Memphis Trust Insurance Agency, Memphis, 
brines s_ 
U 
e e (assets of one hundred thousand dollars), 
acquired in 
Memphis Bank Building Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee (assets of 
*bout s ? 
million), acquired In 1960, Central Guardian Life Insurance 
°0lnPativ U 
Memphis, Tennessee (assets of less than $2 million), acquired 
» a^d Guardian Data Service & Supply Company, Memphis, Tennessee 
s of two hundred thousand dollars) acquired in 1966. Through 
1971, 
two of Registrant's nonbanking subsidiaries, namely, Alabama 
k0l5lPai\v 
B a n k * Birmingham, Alabama (acquired in 1967), and Guardian Discount 
kitift C o l u mhus, Georgia (acquired in 1957), were merged with a third non-
Trust Company of Tennessee, Memphis, Tennessee, which 
*aft8acti 
t U r n m e r 8 e d w i t h Memphis Trust Company. As a result of these 
Pt(iviou *°ns» a substantial portion of the consumer loan and finance business 
conducted by the merged companies was liquidated and the remaining 
es are direct activities of Registrant. 
3/ 
^ 
Q e t figures for Registrant's subsidiaries are as of December 31, 1971. 

„ 3719 
-4-
its subsidiaries, Registrant engages in writing all forms of life 
in 
France, operation of a general insurance agency and brokerage business, 
Pr°viding bookkeeping and accounting services, selling, leasing, and 
distributing office furniture and equipment, providing data processing 
Printing services, holding real estate for present and future banking 
Nations, and providing maintenance and construction services for the 
gistrant and its subsidiaries. 
To the extent that Registrant engages in activities to serve 
the 
6 holding company or its subsidiaries such as the purchase of property 
f Ov 
U s e by the Registrant or its subsidiaries or the selling of commercial 
paPer to provide financing for the holding company system, such activities 
*^ar to warrant an exemption under § 4(c)(1)(C) of the Act. Bank wholly 
Memphis Bank Building Corporation, which holds real estate and 
Pr°vid( 
les maintenance and construction services for the holding company, 
activity appears to be entitled to a § 4(c)(1)(C) exemption. The 
nVestment in shares of a company to a level of 5 per cent or less is 
ais 
5/ 
exempt under the Act." 
The remaining direct nonbanking activities of Registrant 
^PPeav 
to be limited in scope. As indicated earlier, Registrant's 
f r o m a l l i t s direct activities accounts for about 7 per cent of 
(^it,ection 4(c)(1)(C) of the Act enables a holding company to acquire 
in
 U°ut Board approval) "(1) shares of any company engaged . . . solely 
" 
furnishing services to or performing services for such bank 
company or its banking subsidiaries; . . .". 
4/ s 
9Ppt e c t i°n 4(c)(6) enables a holding company to acquire (without Board 
of 
"shares of any company which do not include more than 5 per centum 
e outstanding voting shares of any company." 

.. 3720 
-5-
"-rant s total income which, for the year 1971, was reported to 
b e $814,000. 
Applicant claims that the major portion of insurance written 
Placed by its subsidiaries engaged in insurance activities is 
r°ugh, or in connection with, the other activities of the holding 
Pany o r i t g subsidiaries. Approximately 250 insurance companies 
insurance agencies have offices in the Memphis area. Registrant's 
sub s i d, 
^ary that is engaged in selling and leasing office supplies and 
^tnit 
U r e a n d providing data processing and printing services competes 
With m 
° r e t h a n 40 data processing firms, 50 office supply and equipment 
e s a n d 125 printing firms serving the Memphis area. 
On the basis of the foregoing and all the facts before the 
V d » ic appears that the volume, scope, and nature of the activities 
Of 
Sistrant and its subsidiaries do not demonstrate an undue concentration 
of tes 
°urces, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest nor 
IQ banking practices. 
There appears to be no reason to require Registrant to 
^ i n a t 
, 
t e its grandfathered interests. It is the Eoard's judgment that, 
tlUs n . 
time, termination of the grandfather privileges of Registrant 
S n°t rip 
ecessary in order to prevent undue concentration of resources, 
eased 
a or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound 
Practices. However, this determination is not authority to 
i 
n t o any activity that was not engaged in on June 30, 1968 and 
d 
nu°usly thereafter, or any activity that is not the subject of this 
m i nati 0 n. Nor is this determination authority for Registrant to 

3721 
-6-
acquire additional shares in any company if the Registrant's holdings 
in 8aid company will exceed 5 per cent of the outstanding shares of 
Sucb company. 
A significant alteration in the nature or extension of 
Re&istrant's activities or a change in location thereof (significantly 
Afferent from any described in this determination) will be cause for 
n 
^-evaluation by the Board of Registrant's activities under the 
V i s i o n s of § 4(a)(2) of the Act, that is, whenever the alteration 
°r change is such that the Board finds that a termination of the 
privileges is necessary to prevent an undue concentration 
of 
r 
resources or any of the other evils designated in the Act. No 
^ S e r , consolidation, acquisition of assets other than in the ordinary 
c°urse of business, nor acquisition of any interest in a going concern, 
to 
wbich the Registrant or any nonbank subsidiary thereof is a party, 
* a y b e consummated without prior approval of the Board. Further, the 
of any credit, property, or service by the Registrant or 
y subsidiary thereof shall not be subject to any condition which, if 
iTUP°Sed by a bank, would constitute an unlawful tie-in arrangement 
§ 106 of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
The determination herein does not preclude a later review 
^ t h e Board of Registrant's nonbank activities and a future determination 
y t h e Board in favor of termination of grandfather benefits of Registrant. 
b 

; 3 7 2 2 
-7-
e ^termination herein is subject to the Board's authority to require 
Diod-jf . 
Nation or termination of the activities of Registrant or any of 
n°nbanking subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure 
Comni -t 
a n c e w i t h 
provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
ions and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof 
6 / 
By determination of the Board of Governors," effective 
J**uary ^ 
1 9 7 3 > 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
^ane0tgn8 f o r t h i s acti-on: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
» rimmer, a n d Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Sheehan. 

q 
Item No. 8 
12/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ZIONS UTAII BANCORPORATION 
Determination Regarding "Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
pt°vides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect to 
b a n k i n g activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amendments 
to t^e Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding Company 
Act 
* Pursuant to * 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 1970" may 
to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, in nonbanking 
tivities th a t guc|1 a company was lax/fully engaged in on June 30, 1968 (or 
on a J 
a t e subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of activities carried 
°n a a 
a Result of the acquisition by such company or subsidiary, pursuant 
written contract entered into on or before June 30, 1968 of 
ailOthei 
Company engaged in such activities at the time of the acquisition), 
n a s been continuously engaged in since June 30, 1968 (or such subsequent 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
Of Q 
Vernors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
Prlvii 
8 e s if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
ines that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentration of 
c e s, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of Interest, or un-
S°und k 
Danking practices. With respect to a company that controls a bank 
^th 
assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, the 
i 
A s Required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

-2-
3724 
r e q U e s t a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414 and 25204). The time 
Notice of the Board's proposed review of the grandfather 
privileges of the Zions Utah Bancorporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, and 
°Pportunity for interested persons to submit coinnents and views or 
for f4-.. 
comments, views, and requests has expired, and all those 
Ceived have considered by the Board in light of the factors set forth 
j 
U § 4<a)(2) of the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following findings. 
^ior\Q IT.. , 
cah Bancorporation, Salt Lake City, Utah ("Registrant"), became 
holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of the 1970 Amend-
^nts t ° the Act, by virtue of Registrants ownership of approximately 52 
Per cent °f the outstanding voting shares of Zions First National Bank, Salt 
' cy, Utah ("Bank") (assets of $325.9 million as of December 31, 1970). 
Bank cont i 
^ 
crol of which was acquired by Registrant in April 1960, 
had total 
Sosits 
of $339.2 million (as of December 31, 1971), representing about 
6 P e r cent * i_ 
lc ot the total deposits in commercial banks in Utah. On the basis 
its share of deposits, Bank ranks third of thirteen banks in the Salt 
6 C 0 u n 
U n ty market, with about 21 per cent of the deposits therein, and 
U t t h of f 4 
rive banks in the Provo banking market, with about 14 per cent of 
% o s t t s 
, 
erein. While Bank is a significant competitor among the State's 
g °r8anizations, 
it does not appear to be dominant. Bank's management 
c°ndition and prospects are regarded as satisfactory, and the 
d has °und no evidence of unsound banking practices. 
acquire all of the remaining shares of Bank in April 1972. 

-3-
3725 
Registrant (consolidated assets of about $342 million in 1970) 
8ages directly in insurance agency activities and real estate business, 
apparently has engaged in such activities continuously since before 
Jurig, 
c 
1968. 
Registrant's insurance agency activities consist of writing 
iire insurance almost entirely for loans made by Registrant's sub-
Sidiarl 
e s and casualty insurance for property pledged as collateral against 
such Xoa 
ar*s. Registrant's principal real estate activity is the development 
an industrial park in a 170 acre area acquired in 1955 in Salt Lake 
city. 
egistrant engages in the consumer finance business in Utah and has 
^ 
engaged therein continuously since before June 30, 1968, through The 
k h a r t Company, Salt Lake City, and Lockhart Finance Company, Salt Lake 
City (b 
°th acquired in January 1966), and in Colorado through the following 
n°nbankin 
ng subsidiaries: Rocky Mountain Industrial Bank, Colorado Springs 
a in January 1966); Littleton First Industrial Bank, Littleton 
Nuired 
a in May 1968); Fort Collins First Industrial Bank, Fort Collins 
CcJuired 
n October 1971); Guaranty Industrial Bank, Loveland (acquired in 
°vember 197lx 
. 
l9
 
; ; A r v a ^ a First Industrial Bank, Arvada (acquired in December 
' and F-f 
IzJ 
^ 
s t industrial Bank, Longmont (acquired in December 1971). 
6 two 
ance company subsidiaries located in Utah (combined assets of 
U t $21 million in 1970) compete with over 150 lending offices of other 
e&istrant~ 
i97?Uant t o d 5 e c e l v e d approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
^u 
g a t e d a u t h o r l t y to acquire three finance companies during 
8 Regulation°YiSl°nS ° f § 4 ( ° ) ( 8 ) ° f t h e A c t a n d § ^ 5 M b ) ( l ) of the 

372S 
-4-
SlnaU loan companies operating in Utah, including offices of two large 
Uational corporation engaged in consumer finance, and do not appear to be 
enough to affect the position of Bank in the Utah markets served by 
it rp, 
• The two finance company subsidiaries located in Colorado, which are 
•^igible for grandfather benefits, had combined assets of less than $6 
in 1970, and are not regarded as significant competitors in the 
served by Registrant's banking subsidiary. 
Through the Lockhart companies, Registrant also engages in 
equipment leasing business. The Lockhart Company conducts such 
activlM 
ties directly, and the Lockhart Finance Company engages in such 
Cities through a wholly-owned subsidiary formed in 1966, Zions Leasing 
m p a ny, Salt Lake City, Utah (assets of about $3 million as of December 1970) 
Edition, Registrant operates real estate business (Lockhart Realty 
C°mPanv 
Y* Salt Lake City, Utah), which was acquired in January 1966, and now 
l*Hita it-
*ts activities to collecting payments on contracts of sale of real 
estate Previously made. The equipment leasing activities and the current 
estate operations of Lockhart Realty appear eligible for grandfather 
befits 
» and the nature and scope of such activities are such that curtail-
^nt 0 r 
divestiture of such activities is not required. 
*nd a 
Registrant also owns an electrical supplies distributing business 
c°mPany engaged in the sale of money orders. These businesses were 
n°t a 
q U i r e d by Registrant prior to June 30, 1968, and are not eligible 
grandfather benefits. 

-5-
3727 
On the basis of the foregoing and all the facts before the Board, 
appears that the volume, scope, and nature of the activities of Regis-
trant and its subsidiaries do not demonstrate an undue concentration of 
^sources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest nor 
Unsound banking practices. 
There appears to be no reason to require Registrant to terminate 
it8 grandfathered interests. It is the Board's judgment that, at this 
time > termination of the grandfather privileges of Registrant is not 
Cessary i n order to prevent undue concentration of resources, decreased 
Ul*fair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices. 
eri this determination is not authority to enter into any activity 
^at wa0 
was not engaged in on June 30, 1968 and continuously thereafter, or 
y activity that is not subject to this determination. Nor is this deter-
^iriatin 
authority for Registrant to acquire any additional real property 
additionaj- types of insurance agency activity. 
A significant alteration of the nature or extension of Registrant's 
Us 
a n y «eS( 
or a change in location thereof (significantly different from 
t h * Bo 
bribed in this determination) will be cause for a re-evaluation by 
ard of Registrant's activities under the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of 
the Act -U 
» that is, whenever the alteration or change is such that the Board 
th -
n at a termination of the grandfather privileges is necessary to pre-
v*nt a n 
undue concentration of resources or any of the other evils designated 
ttl 
Ao-
nct. No merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets other than in 
the „ 
mary course of business, nor acquisition of any interest in a going 

' 3728 
-6-
°ncern» to which the Registrant or any nonbank subsidiary thereof is a 
Partv may be consummated without prior approval of the Board. Further, 
Provigion of any credit, property, or service by the Registrant or 
Subsidiary thereof shall not be subject to any condition which, if 
by a bank, would constitute an unlawful tie-in arrangement under 
| 1 
the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
The determination herein does not preclude a later review by 
the Boar/4 
ara» of Registrant's nonbank activities and a future determination 
ttle Board in favor of termination of grandfather benefits of Registrant. 
Cermination herein is subject to the Board's authority to require 
Cation oi termination of the activities of Registrant. The determina-
^erein is subject to the Board's authority to require modification or 
nation of the activities of Registrant or anv of its nonbanking sub-
8 as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the pro-
and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued 
the^under 
t» or to prevent evasions thereof. 
3/ 
By determination of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 4, 
1973< 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
r„ 
Secretary of the Board 
V
] 
— — 
fcJL 0 r this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Immer, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Sheehan. 

3 7 2 3 
B O A R D TJF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
12/18/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E . 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
D e c e m b e r 21, 1972 
Aubrey N. Heflin, 
President 
scleral R e s e r v e Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 
23213 
Sear M r . Heflin: 
" 
^ ^ 
The Board of G o v e r n o r s took action on D e c e m b e r 18 to 
^ a p p r o v e the pending i n c r e a s e in your Bank's discount rate 
4 om 4 - 1 / 2 to 4 - 3 / 4 per cent which your d i r e c t o r s voted to 
^sLa.blj.sti on D e c e m b e r 14. 
In reaching if;3 decision the Board 
^lev/ed the mounting evidence that a higher discount rate 
v°uld be justified by rising market interest rates, by recent 
a-Ccel 
' 
a e r a t i o n in the growth of bank r e s e r v e s and the monetary 
arrnj. 
& 
; 
^ofe cgates, and by the signs of further strengthening in key 
• ttomic indicators. 
The Board also took note of the higher 
e ^ ^ 
m e m ^ c r bank borrowings in recent weeks and cons id -
p r o b l e m of administering 
the discount window when 
/ o a d s between the discount rate and m o n e y market rates 
significantly. 
pr f 
Board concluded, h o w e v e r , that timing considerations 
in C s e n ^ y w e r e not advantageous and counseled against an 
hi the discount rate under prevailing 
c i r c u m s t a n c e s . 
v> ^ ^ r 
sur y' s two forthcoming cash financings - - o n e this 
aj. 
^ 
a n ° t h e r , involving a l o n g - t e r m bond, probably 
the y e a r - e n d - - w e r e seen as f a c t o r s weighing against 
^ a n g e in System policy in the interim. 
It was also 
b^tf 
tlie overall e c o n o m i c stabilization effort would be 
017 served if an adjustment in the discount rate w e r e m o r e 

H O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S D F THL F EDE R At, R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3730 
Aubrey N. Keflin 
^age 2. 
p e a r l y seen as a market-following action. 
In this connection, 
view was e x p r e s s e d that it would be desirable to continue to 
Jftonitor developments for a while longer to see to what extent 
IT"0 r e c e n 1 : advances in market interest rates and the apparent 
^ulge in the. monetary aggregates might have been the product 
a period of peak seasonal activity and of transitory adjust-
ments to the N o v e m b e r changes in regulations affecting bank 
^serves. 
arriving at its decision the Board reviewed the views 
, 
Vour Bank's d i r e c t o r s , which you communicated in your 
' " e r 
D e c e m b e r 14, and I have been asked to e x p r e s s their 
appreciation for having had the benefit of these views. 
Sincerely y o u r s , 
/ 
/ Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

HOARD OF fJGVfJ^ND'u'i 
o r y" c 
Item No. 10 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
12/18/72 
1 
C o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
• -Date D e c e m b e r 21, ' 1972_ 
a, 
^Ijleserve Bank Preydents ' 
Subject: 
Board Action on Discount, 
H_q£mand Bernard A] >\J $ . 
Rate of December 18, 1972 
S T R I C T L Y 
C O N F I D E N T I A L 
In keeping with the B o a r d ' s instructions to the staff, the 
o&rd's r e a s o n s for its disapproval of p r o p o s e d i n c r e a s e s in 
• 
discount R a l e a r e c o m m u n i c a t e d below. 
Th ese r e a s o n s 
of c o u r s e , 
spelled out in greater detail by Chairman 
^ X l l T X s at the joint meeting of the Presidents and the Board on 
c o m b e r 19. 
Chairman Burns has asked us to u n d e r s c o r e 
fact that the information conveyed at the joint meeting wa s 
- the p e r s o n a l r e f e r e n c e of each P r e s i d e n t and should not 
° scared with anyone. 
In reaching its decision on D e c e m b e r 18, the B o a r d 
^•viewed the mounting evidence that a higher discount rate 
1 
Justified hv rising m a r k e t interest rates, by recent 
•Elevation in the growth of bank r e s e r v e s and the monetary 
cl.
 ry tY 
^ • eg,itey, 
and by the signs of further strengthening 
in kev 
^ lomic indicators. 
The Board also took note of the higher 
m e m b e r bank b o r r o w i n g s in recent weeks and c o n s i d -
1 
c^e p r o b l e m of administering the discount window when 
spre-^H t 
A 
between the discount rate and money m a r k e t rates 
G n significantly. 
^he B o a r d concluded, h o w e v e r , that timing considerations 
PresonH 
1 
w e r e not advantageous and counseled against an i n c r e a s e 
tliA i" 
Tr 
a 3scount rate under prevailing c i r c u m s t a n c e s . 
The 
^ 
' as\iry' s two forthcoming cash financings - - o n e this week and 
e 
0 r> involving a l o n g - t e r m bond, probably around the y e a r -
- w e r e seen as f a c t o r s weighing against 
ar> overt change in 
O y S t e m P°licy in the interim. 
It was also felt that the 
s 
* 
e c o n o m i c 
stabilization effort would be better 
r 
Vec^ ^ ari adjustment in the discount rate w e r e m o r e c l e a r l y 
a s a m a r k e t - f o l l o w i n g action. 
In this connection, the view 
e x p r e s s e d that it would be desirable to continue to m o n i t o r 
proents for a while longer to see to what extent the recent 
IXi U T l C e s 
m a r k e t interest rates and the apparent bulge in the 
^ ' a r T aggregates might have been the product of. a period of 
J. -ctjK' , . 
~ 
Kf 
activity and of trans itorv a diu fitments to the 
changes in regulations affectin-?. bank r e s e r v e s . 
