MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 13, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Interpretation of Regulation Y, 
Bank Holding Companies, relating 
to thrift notes. 

4856 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 13, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Managing Director for Operations and Super-
vision 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
1/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

4.857 
12/13/73 
-2-
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Garwood, Adviser, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco on December 6, by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on December 7, and by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on December 10, 1973, of the rates on advances 
and discounts in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Legal Division in a memoran-
dum of December 7, 1973, the Board unanimously approved an interpretation 
to be published in the Federal Register concluding that the sale of 
"thrift notes" would be an impermissible activity for a bank holding 
company under section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933. In reaching this 
conclusion, the Board distinguished the proposed activity from the sale 

4858 
12/13/73 
-3-
of "commercial paper." A copy of the Federal Register notice is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of FrostBank 
Corporation, San Antonio, Texas, to acquire shares of Colonial National 
Bank, also of San Antonio, a proposed new bank. The Board authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of which is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mercantile 
Bancorporation, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of High 
Ridge Bank, High Ridge, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board authorized issuance of an amended order in connection 
with its approval, on December 30, 19 71, of the application of Connecticut 
Bankshares Corporation, Windsor Locks, Connecticut, to acquire shares 
of Northern Connecticut National Bank, also of Windsor Locks. A copy 
of the amended order is attached as Item No. 4. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Holdover float and check processing problems at Federal Reserve 
offices. In a memorandum of December 12, 19 73, Governor Sheehan, 
Chairman of the Board's Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities, 
indicated the Committee's concurrence in a recommendation by the staff 
of procedures to improve check processing operations at eight Federal 

4859 
12/13/73 
-4-
Reserve offices. Draft letters to the Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks in whose Districts the offices were located were 
submitted. 
After discussion during which it was understood that changes 
in wording would be made, the Board unanimously approved the letters, 
copies of which are attached under Item No. 5. 
Old Kent Financial Corporation. At its meeting on December 12, 
1973, the Board considered the application of Old Kent Financial Corpo-
ration, Grand Rapids, Michigan, to acquire shares of the successor by 
merger to National Lumberman's Bank and Trust Company, Muskegon, 
Michigan. In a memorandum of November 28, 1973, the Division of 
Research and Statistics had recommended approval, while the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation had recommended denial of the application. 
After discussion, the Board denied the application, Governors 
Sheehan and Daane dissenting from the majority's view of the economic 
consequences of regional concentration of banking resources. It was 
understood that documentation to implement this decision would be 
prepared for the Board's consideration. 
First International Bancshares. At its meeting on October 12, 
1973, the Board deferred action on the application of First International 
Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to Citizens First National Bank of Tyler, Tyler, Texas. 
With a memorandum of November 20, 1973, the Legal Division submitted a 

4860 
12/13/73 
-5-
revised draft order presenting a legal basis for denial of the 
application. 
After discussion of this application in relation to the growth 
in concentration of the State's banking resources among a few large 
bank holding companies, the Board denied the application, Governors 
Daane and Sheehan dissenting on public benefits and competitive 
grounds. The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting this 
decision. Copies of the order and of the dissenting statement of 
Governors Daane and Sheehan are attached under Item No. 6. 
Due bills. With his letter of July 3, 1973, Mr. Richard A. Debs, 
First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, submitted 
studies prepared by the New York Bank concerning the increasing use 
by member banks of uncollateralized due bills on U.S. Government 
securities as a source of funds not subject to reserve requirements 
and other regulation. The Conference of Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks endorsed the recommendation of the New York Bank that 
the definition of "deposits" in Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, 
and in Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, be amended to include 
uncollateralized due bills. In a memorandum of November 16, 1973, 
the Division of Research and Statistics concurred in the recommendation, 
and in a memorandum of December 5, 1973, the Legal Division recommended 
adoption of proposed amendments to Regulations D and Q that would bring 
due bills under the provisions of those regulations. 

4861 
12/13/73 
-6-
After discussion, the Board authorized publication for comment 
of the proposed amendments. A copy of the Federal Register notice 
in this regard is attached as Item No. 7. 
Standby letters of credit. At its meeting on March 29, 1973, 
the Board adopted a position with respect to the issuance by banks 
of standby letters of credit that guarantee commercial paper of 
business firms ("documented discount notes"). At that time, the 
Board agreed, for purposes of discussions of the matter in the 
Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, that it should 
urge the Comptroller of the Currency to rule that the issuance of 
standby letters of credit was not within the powers of national banks 
and that the Board should strongly discourage State member banks from 
issuing such contingent liabilities. 
In a memorandum of December 10, 1973, Mr. Solomon conveyed 
the views of the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
relating to documented discount notes. In a memorandum of December 5, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Legal Division 
requested that the staff be authorized to negotiate further with the 
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
in order to reach a uniform agency position with respect to documented 
discount notes; namely, that such notes are subject to a bank's legal 
lending limit and to section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. 

4862 
12/13/73 
-7-
Although discussion revealed sentiment on the part of some 
members of the Board for an outright prohibition of standby letters 
of credit of this type, the Board authorized the staff to conduct 
negotiations with the other regulatory agencies concerned with a 
view to the imposition of lending limitations on such instruments. 
In a related matter, the Committee on Financial Statistics, 
in a memorandum of December 4, 1973, recommended that the Board 
approve in principle the collection and publication of supplementary 
information from State member banks on their standby letters of credit 
Such data would be included in a supplement to the report of condition 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the recommen-
dation, with the understanding that procedures for implementing this 
decision would be reviewed by the Committee on Financial Statistics. 
Reserve requirement legislation. With a memorandum of Decem-
ber 11, 1973, Mr. Melnicoff submitted a draft of a bill that would 
extend reserve requirements to nonmember financial institutions and 
requested guidance from the Board on issues pertaining to the proposed 
uniform reserve requirement legislation. 
In today's preliminary discussion, comments were made with 
respect to the approach and emphasis of the proposed legislation. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg 
Allison, Melnicoff, Partee, and Doyle, and the following entered the 
room: Mr. Anderson, Assistant Director, Division of Administrative 

4 8 6 3 
12/13/73 
-8-
Services; Mr. Kelleher, Consultant; and Mr. Lesko, Administrative 
Assistant, Construction Project. 
Martin Building. In a memorandum of December 12, 1973, 
Mr. Melnicoff requested guidance from the Board in developing plans 
relating to future office space needs. Discussion at today's meeting 
focused on plans for conversion of the second garage level in the 
Martin Building to additional office and shop space. It was understood 
that this matter would be considered further by the Board next week. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
12/13/73 
S-2252-a 
TITLE 12-*fcANKS AND BANkiNG 
CHAPTER II-*F2fiEfcAt RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
{Reg. Y] 
PART 225— BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Part 250—MISCELLANEOUS INTERPRETATIONS 
$ 2 2 5 • 1 3 0 j ^ n c c and sale of_shprt>term debt obliFAMrm« 
by bqnk holding companiTJr' 
For text of interpretation, see § 250.221 of this Chapter. 
I250.22I Issuance and sale of short-term debt o b H ^ M ^ c K y 
bank holding companies- 
" 
The opinion of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System has been requested recently with respect to the proposed sale of 
'thrift notes" by a bank holding company for the purpose of supplying 
c«Pital to its wholly-owned nonbanking subsidiaries. 
The thrift notes would bear the name of the holding company, 
Vhich m the case presented, was substantially similar to the name of its 
filiated banks. It was proposed that they be issued in denominations 
$50 to $100 and initially be of 12-month or less maturities. There 
be no maximum amount of the issue. Interest rates would be 
l i a b l e according to money market conditions but would presumably be at 
somewhat above those permitted by Regulation Q ceilings. There 
V° U l d b e n ° 8 u a r a a t e « 
indemnity of the notes by any of the banks in the 
h<^ing company system and, if retired to do so. the holding company 
V o ^ d p l a c * o n t h c f a c e o f t h e n o t c s fl n e g a t i v G r e p r c s e n t a t i o a t h a t t h e 
price was not a deposit, nor an indirect obligation of banks in 
6 holding comply system, nor covered by deposit insurance. 

4865 
-2-
The notes would be generally available for sale to members of the 
Public, but only at offices of the holding company and its nonbanking sub-
sidiaries. Although offices of the holding company may be in the same 
building or quarters as its banking offices, they would be physically 
separated from the banking offices. Sales would be made only by officers 
° r employees of the holding company and its nonbanking subsidiaries. 
Initially, the notes would only be offered in the State in which the holding 
company was principally doing business, thereby complying with the exemp-
tion provided by section 3(a)(11) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 
77c> f o r "intra-state" offerings. If it was decided to offer the notes on 
interstate basis, steps would be taken to register the notes under the 
Securities Act of 1933, Funds from the sale of the notes would be used 
°nly to supply the financial needs of the nonbanking subsidiaries of the 
holding company. These nonbank subsidiaries are, at present, a small loan 
c°mpany, a mortgage banking company and a factoring company. In no instance, 
v°uld the proceeds from the sale of the notes be used in the bank subsidi-
s e s of the holding company nor to maintain fhp availability of funds in 
lt;s bank subsidiaries, 
' 
The sale of the thrift notes, in the specific manner proposed, is 
** activity described in section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 
that is, "the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale or distri-
bution. . .of. . .notes, or other securities". Briefly stated, this statute 
Prohibits a member bank to be affiliated with a company "engaged princi-
pally" i n 8 U c h activity. Since the continued issuance and sale of such 

4866 
-3-
securities would be necessary to permit maintenance of the holding company*s 
activities without substantial contraction and would be an integral part of 
its operations, the Board concluded that the issuance and sale of such notes 
would constitute a principal activity of a holding company within the spirit 
and purpose of the statute. (For prior Board decisions in this connection, 
see 1934 Federal Reserve Bulletin 485, 12 CFR 218.104, 12 CFR 218.105 and 
12 CFR 218.101.) 
In reaching this conclusion, the Board distinguished the proposed 
activity from the sale of short-term notes commonly known as "commercial 
paper", which is a recognized form of financing for bank holding com-
panies. For purposes of this interpretation, "commercial paper" may be 
defined as notes, with maturities not exceeding nine months, the proceeds 
which are to be used for current transactions, which are usually sold 
to sophisticated institutional investors, rather than to members of the 
general public, in minimum denominations of $10,000 (although sometimes 
they may be sold in minimum denominations of $5,000). Commercial paper 
is exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 by reason 
°f the exemption provided by section 3(a)(3) thereof (15 U.S.C. 77c). 
That exemption is inapplicable where the securities are sold to the general 
Public (17 CFR 231.4412). The reasons for such exemption, taken together 
vith the abuses that gave rise to the passage of the Banking Act of 1933 
("the Glass-Steagall Act") have lead the Board to conclude that the 

48G7 
-4-
issuance of commercial paper by a bank holding company is not an activity 
intended to be included within the scope of section 20. (Interprets and 
applies 12 U.S.C. 377 and 1843.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective December 13, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
[SEAL] 
Chester B, Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

_. 48G8 
Item No. 2 
12/13/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FROSTBANK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
FrostBank Corporation (formerly Frost Realty Company), San Antonio, 
Texas, a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Com-
Pany Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of Colonial National Bank, San Antonio, Texas, a proposed 
bank ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P^sons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with § 3(b) 
the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and none 
has been timely received. The Board has considered the application in 
lj-ght of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the tenth largest banking organization in Texas, 
h 
1/ 
las two banks 
with aggregate deposits of approximately $519 million, 
^presenting about 1.5 per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks 
i 
1/ 
i n the State. 
Since Bank is a proposed new bank, its acquisition would 
Either 
eliminate existing competition nor immediately increase Applicant's 
share of commercial bank deposits in either Texas or the San Antonio 
banking market. 
p~~~Applicant, in addition to these two banks, owns 20.6 per cent of Texas 
^ate Bank, San Antonio, Texas, and 24.9 per cent of Harlandale State Bank, 
San Antonio, Texas. Both of these interests are subject to divestiture by 
^Pplicant by May 1, 1975, pursuant to the Board's Order of March 21, 1973. 
& 
All deposit data are as of June 30, 1973, and reflect all bank holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved through October 31, 1973. 

4869 
- 2 -
The proposed site of Bank will be in the San Antonio banking 
market (approximated by the San Antonio SMSA). Applicant controls 2 of 
3 9 banks located in the relevant market, and with deposits representing 
0 / 
•8 per cent of total market deposits, Applicant is the largest banking 
°rganization in the market. Bank's proposed service area overlaps that of 
° n e of Applicant's subsidairies located three miles away; however, since 
Bar*k is a proposed new bank, consummation of the proposal would not 
eliniinate any existing competition. In view of the facts that the 
market's present population to banking office ratio is more than double 
t h e State average and the market's population growth has been greater than 
t h e State average, the San Antonio banking market would continue to be 
attractive to de novo entry. Therefore, it does not appear that acquisition 
of Bank by Applicant would significantly reduce the prospects for future 
Mansion or entry by other banking organizations. The Board concludes 
that approval of the application would not have a significant adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. 
Although there is no evidence that the major banking needs of the 
Co*munity are not being adequately met, Bank would serve as an additional 
S o ur C e of banking services by increasing the availability of installment 
Xq IS » credit card, and trust services to the leading area of growth and 
Mansion in the San Antonio banking market. Therefore, considerations 
nS to the convenience and needs of the community to be served lend 
So*e weight toward approval, Accordingly, it is the Board's judgment that 
the Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest. 

4870 
•3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) Colonial 
National Bank, San Antonio, Texas, shall be opened for business not later 
th*n six months after the effective date of this Order. Each of the periods 
Ascribed in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, or 
b y t h e Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 13, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
3/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
clmmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. 

4871 
Item No. 3 
12/13/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MERCANTILE BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mercantile Bancorporation, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of High 
Ri<ige Bank, High Ridge, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
* 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
ar*d none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
X842(C)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Missouri, controls 
1 2 banks with aggregate deposits of $1.2 billion, representing slightly 
1/ 
Ver 9 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
It 
iH , 
1 7 
also the largest banking organization in the St. Louis banking market, 
c°ntrolling 14 per cent of total deposits in the market and 12.2 per cent 
of 
1 7 
IPC deposits in accounts of $100,000 or less. 
Consummation of the 
^ 
banking data are as of June 30, 1973, except as otherwise indicated, 
nd reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
through October 31, 1973. 
The St. Louis banking market includes the City and County of St. Louis, 
P°*tions of St. Charles and Jefferson Counties in Missouri, and portions of 
ladison and St. Clair Counties in Illinois. 
IPC deposit data are as of June 30, 1972. 

4872 
- 2 -
Proposed acquisition of Bank (deposits of $9 million) would not result 
i n a significant increase in the concentration of banking resources in 
either the St. Louis banking market or in the State of Missouri. 
Bank is located in the extreme southwestern portion of the St. 
Louis banking market, somewhat isolated from other banks in the area. In 
fact, only two other banks are within ten road miles of Bank, and of these, 
B*nk is the second largest holding approximately 25 per cent of total 
deposits in this primary service area. Both competitors are holding 
company affiliates, the larger controlling 54 per cent of the total commer-
cial deposits therein. The closest distance between Bank and any of 
Applicant's four existing subsidiary banks in the St. Louis banking market 
j 
3 twenty-four miles, and no significant competition exists between these 
Subsidiaries and Bank or any of Applicant's other subsidiaries. Similarly, 
n° significant competition exists between Bank and Applicant's nonbanking 
Subsidiary, Mercantile Mortgage Company, Clayton, Missouri, a firm which 
°riginates mortgage loans in the St. Louis area."" 
On the basis of the 
tecord before it, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposal 
w°uld not have an adverse effect on existing or future competition in any 
Relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
Subsidiary banks, and Bank are satisfactory; future prospects of all appear 
X/ -— 
r 
A s of August 31, 1973, Mercantile Mortgage Company originated only 
mortgage loans in Bank's primary service area totaling $72,000. 

4873 
-3-
favorable. Affiliation with Applicant would enable Bank to become a more 
effective competitor in its primary service area in that Bank would have 
additional lending capability to help satisfy the growing demands for 
commercial and mortgage loans. In addition, consummation herein would 
enable Bank to broaden the range of services it presently offers, including 
computerized payroll and other new corporate services. Applicant will 
also assist Bank with the construction of a larger, more conveniently 
located main bank building. Considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served are consistent with approval. It 
is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or 
later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
Such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 13, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
5r~Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
trimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. 

. 4874 
Item No. A 
12/13/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CONNECTICUT BANCSHARES CORPORATION 
Amended Order 
By Order dated December 30, 1971, the Board approved an appli-
cation of Connecticut Bancshares Corporation, New York, New York, to 
become a bank holding company through acquisition of not less than 
50.9 per cent of the voting shares of Northern Connecticut National 
Bank, Windsor Locks, Connecticut (37 F.R. 159, January 6, 1972). The 
Order stated that "a fair and equivalent exchange offer will be made 
to all shareholders". Subsequent to this Order, the Board has granted 
Applicant extensions of time within which to consummate the transaction. 
Applicant requests relief from the obligation to make an 
equal offer to all shareholders of Northern Connecticut National Bank 
in view of the October 12, 1973, amendment of the Board's Rules Regarding 
Delegation of Authority, which removed the requirement that Reserve 
Banks, in reviewing applications for the formation of a bank holding 
company or for the acquisitions of an additional bank by an estab-
lished bank holding company, take into consideration whether an 
equal offer will be extended to all shareholders of the bank to be 
acquired (12 CFR 265.2(f)(22)). 
The Board has concluded that the request should be granted. 
The Board1s Order of December 30, 1971, is hereby amended by deleting 

- 2 -
4875 
the requirement that "a fair and equivalent exchange offer will be 
made to all shareholders". 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 13, 197 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Jl/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. 
V 

BDARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2055t 
4876 
Item No.. 5 
12/13/73 
A O O R C S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
O O A R O 
December 14, 1973 
Mr, Alfred Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 10045 
Dear President Hayes: 
Over the past year, check processing problems in several Districts 
have grown to a point causing substantial concern to the Board. System 
daily average holdover float, an indicator of check processing capability 
and performance, increased from $.2 billion to $.9 billion between June 1972 
and June 1973. Currently, System daily holdover float frequently exceeds 
$1.0 billion indicating the seriousness of check processing problems. The 
Board believes that senior management within the affected Districts must 
focus immediate attention on the problems and commit to whatever action is 
required to rectify the situation. In this regard, the Board has asked the 
Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities to work with the Banks to resolve 
the check processing problems indicated. 
Combined daily holdover float at the New York and Cranford offices 
Presently accounts for about 20% of the System daily holdover float. Not 
since May 1972 has the New York office achieved a level of average daily 
holdover float below the established System 3% guideline (3% of the dollar 
amount received and not processed on the day of receipt). In addition, 
during 1972, the New York office check processing cost was some 62% higher 
than System average, and the productivity of the operation measured in items 
Per manhour was 31% below System average. The Board recognizes the problems 
associated with labor-intensive operations in a major metropolitan city, 
and the recent decreases in holdover float at the New York office. However, 
because of the long-term nature of the check processing problems in the 
New York office, as evidenced by these indicators, and the continuing 
Problem with data processing plans which affect check processing, the 
Board has concluded that definitive steps must be taken by Bank management 
to effect a timely resolution of the problem. 
The comments on check operations contained in the July 27, 1973, 
report of the Federal Reserve Bank examiners, together with the factors 
outlined above, indicate that corrective action taken to date has not been 
effective in dealing with the problem. The Board requests that the Bank 
evaluate the check processing situation in detail (with emphasis on 

4877 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President 
-2-
productivity), establish a plan of corrective action, including time 
parameters and resources required, and forward the plan to the Committee 
on Federal Reserve Bank Activities, It is further requested that this 
plan address any considerations for establishing new or expanding existing 
RCPC operations and their projected impacts on the Bank's current opera-
tions and plans for correcting problems. The plan submitted should 
include provisions for reporting progress to the Committee through the 
Board's staff. The Board's staff will contact the designated Bank person-
nel to establish the details of reporting progress once the plan has been 
received and evaluated. 
The Board is looking forward to timely resolution of the check 
processing problems discussed in this letter and will provide, if desirable, 
Board staff assistance to the Bank in preparing the requested plan. 
Yours sincerely, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 

BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1878 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A U 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 14, 1973 
Hr. David P. East-burn, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101 
Dear President Eastburn: 
Over the past year, check processing problems in several 
Districts have grown to a point causing substantial concern to the 
Eoard. System daily average holdover float, an indicator of check 
Processing capability and performance, increased from $.2 billion to 
$.9 billion between June 1972 and June 1973. Currently, System daily 
holdover float frequently exceeds $1.0 billion indicating the serious-
ness of check processing problems. 
Although data developed in August and September 1973 indicated 
the Philadelphia Bank was experiencing serious check processing problems, 
the Board has noted recent progress by the Bank in resolving these 
Problems, The Board commends management and staff of the Philadelphia 
Bank for these recent accomplishments and encourages continued efforts 
directed at an efficient, reliable check collection operation. 
The Board has requested the Committee on Federal Reserve Bank 
A c t i v i t i e s to maintain liaison with the Bank through the Board's Payments 
Mechanism staff so that the experience gained from long-range programs 
developed by the Bank dealing with check processing problems may be 
Passed on to other offices encountering similar problems. 
Yours sincerely, 
v 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 

Miiiiife 
'•^LRf^V 
B D A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
4879 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R K C S P D N O t N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 14, 1973 
Mr. Robert P. Black, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 23261 
Dear President Black: 
Over the past year, check processing problems in several Districts 
have grown to a point causing substantial concern to the Board. System 
daily average holdover float, an indicator of check processing capability 
and performance, increased from $.2 billion to $.9 billion between June 1972 
and June 1973. Currently, System daily holdover float frequently exceeds 
$1.0 billion indicating the seriousness of check processing problems. The 
Board believes that senior management within the affected Districts muse 
focus immediate attention on the problems and commit to whatever action is 
Required to rectify the situation. In this regard, the Board has asked the 
Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities to work with the Banks to 
Resolve the check processing problems indicated. 
Combined daily holdover float at the Richmond, Baltimore, and 
Charlotte offices accounts for about 20% of the System daily holdover float. 
During the past year, none of the three offices has been successful in 
reducing daily average holdover float to the established System 3% guideline 
(3% of the dollar amount received and not processed on the day of receipt). 
Baltimore has had as much as 60% check holdover float on specific days. In 
addition, during 1972, the costs per thousand items at Richmond and Baltimore 
v?ere, respectively, 43% and 30% higher than System average, and the pro-
ductivity of the operations measured in items per manhour at Richmond, 
Baltimore, and Charlotte was 20%, 11%, and 9% below System average. 
Considering the comments on check operations included in the 
August 30, 1973, findings of the Federal Reserve Bank examiners and the 
factors outlined above, the Board has concluded that timely corrective 
action is required in the Richmond District. The Board understands a plan 
to achieve needed improvements is being developed by each office. It is 
requested that these plans be forwarded to the Committee on Federal Reserve 
Bank Activities when completed, and that the productivity and cost problems 
noted earlier be addressed, including corrective time parameters and 
resources required for resolution of the problems. It is further requested 
that these plans discuss considerations for establishing new or expanding 
existing RCPC operations and their projected impacts on the Bank's current 

Mr, Robert P. Black, President 
-2-
4 8 SO 
operations and plans for correcting existing problems. The plans submitted 
should include provisions for reporting progress to the Committee through 
the Board's staff. The Board's staff will contact the designated Bank per-
sonnel to establish the details of reporting progress once the plan has 
been received and evaluated. 
The Board is looking forward to timely resolution of the check 
processing problems discussed in this letter and will provide, if desirable, 
Board staff assistance to the Bank in preparing the requested plan. 
Yours sincerely, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
- 
• x 

.'^ol^ov-A-. 
f-jt::^''!5*. 
v 
x . - 
— vS-
•f^LRtsf:-' 
4881 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
D r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 14, 1973 
Mr. Bruce K. MacLaury, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55480 
Dear President MacLaury: 
Over the past year, check processing problems in several 
D i s t r i c t s have grown to a point causing substantial concern to the 
Board. System daily average holdover float, an indicator of check 
processing capability and performance, increased from $.2 billion to 
$.9 billion between June 1972 and June 1973. Currently, System daily 
holdover f l o a t frequently exceeds $1.0 b i l l i o n indicating the serious-
ness of check processing problems. The Board believes that senior 
management within the affected Districts must focus immediate attention 
on the problems and commit to whatever action is required to rectify 
the situation. In this regard, the Board has asked the Committee on 
Federal Reserve Bank Activities to work with the Banks to resolve the 
check processing problems indicated. 
Daily holdover float at the Minneapolis office presently 
accounts for about 10% of the System daily holdover float, and daily 
average holdover float continues to exceed the System 3% holdover 
guideline (370 of the dollar amount received and not processed on the 
day of receipt). In addition, during 1972, the Minneapolis office 
check processing cost was some 5% higher than System average and the 
productivity of the operation measured in items per manhour was 16% 
below System average. The Board recognizes the difficulties the Bank 
encountered in 1971 with the installation of new computer equipment 
.and the recent move to the new building; however, the Board is con-
cerned with the long-standing failure of the Bank to achieve holdover 
performance in line with the established guidelines. In this regard, 
the Board requests chat the Bank evaluate the check processing situation 
in detail (with emphasis on productivity), establish a plan to correct 
the holdover problem, including time parameters and resources required, 
and forward the plan to the Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities. 
The plan submitted should include provisions for reporting progress to 

Mr. Bruce K. MacLaury, President 
- 2 -
the Committee through the Board's staff. The Board's staff will contact 
the designated Bank personnel to establish the details of reporting 
progress once the plan has been received and evaluated. 
The Board is looking forward to timely resolution of the check 
processing problems discussed in this letter and will provide, if desirable, 
Board staff assistance to the Bank in preparing the requested plan. 
Yours sincerely, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary • 

B D A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 14, 1973 
Mr. John J. Balles, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 94120 
Dear President Balles: 
Over the past year, check processing problems in several Districts 
have grown to a point causing substantial concern to the Board. System 
daily average holdover float, an indicator of check processing capability 
and performance, increased from $.2 billion to $.9 billion between June 1972 
and June 1973. Currently, System daily holdover float frequently exceeds 
$1.0 billion indicating the seriousness of check processing problems. The 
Board believes that senior management within the affected Districts must^ 
focus immediate attention on the problems and commit to whatever action is 
required to rectify the situation. 
In this regard, the Board has asked the 
Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities to work with the Banks to 
resolve the check processing problems indicated. 
Combined daily holdover float at the San Francisco and Los Angeles 
offices presently accounts for about 20% of the System daily holdover float. 
During the past several years, neither the San Francisco nor the Los Angeles 
office has achieved a level of average daily check holdover float below the 
established System 3% guideline (3% of the dollar amount received and not 
Processed on the day of receipt). Although high productivity and low cost 
at both offices evidence management concern to establish cost-effective 
operations, the level of holdover float indicates some operational problems 
exist. The Board is concerned with the long-standing problems these offices 
have experienced, which apparently underlie their inability to reduce check 
holdover to the System guideline. 
The comments on check operations contained in the March 20, 1973, 
report of the Federal Reserve Bank examiners, together with the factors 
outlined above, indicate that corrective action has not been effective in 
dealing with the problems. 
In view of the long-standing nature of these 
Problems, the Board requests that the Ban!: evaluate the check processing 
situation in detail, establish a plan of corrective action, including time 
Parameters and resources required, and forward the plan to the Committee on 
Federal Reserve Bank Activities. 
It is further requested that this plan 
discuss any considerations for establishing new or expanding existing RCPC 

4884 
Mr, John J. Balles, President 
-2-
operations and their projected impacts on the Bank's current operations 
and plans for correcting existing problems. The plan submitted should 
include provisions for reporting progress to the Committee through the 
Board's staff. The Board's staff will contact the designated Bank per-
sonnel to establish the details of reporting progress once the plan has 
been received and evaluated. 
The Board is looking forward to timely resolution of the c h e c * 
processing problems discussed in this letter and will provide, if desirable, 
Board staff assistance to the Bank in preparing the requested plan. 
Yours sincerely, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 

4885 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
FIRST INTERNATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC. 
12/13/73 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a bank hold-
ln8 company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
c 
0 r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
u Squire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
of the successor by merger to Citizens First National Bank of Tyler, Tyler, 
T e X a s ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no signifi-
cance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares 
f Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of'the successor 
r8ani2ation is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
0f Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
n°ne has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
ble 
n in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(c)). 
Applicant is the largest banking organization and bank holding 
mPany in Texas, and has been following an aggressive program of expansion 
°u8h the acquisition of subsidiary banks. The current phase of Appli-
cant «t, 
8 expansion program involves entry into a number of the secondary SMSA 
e t s 
in Texas through acquisition of a major bank in each market it 
i / 
! e c o n d a r y S M S A m a r k e t i n Texas is defined as an SMSA market other 
aS* f° U r l a r8 e s t S M S A markets, i.e., other than the Dallas, Fort 
n> Houston, and San Antonio SMSA markets. 

4886 
-2-
Plana to enter. This pattern is evidenced by the recent acquisitions of 
Applicant as shown on the attached Table I. 
Section 3(c) of the Act provides, in part, that the Board not 
aPprove any proposed acquisition, the effect of which, in any ee'Ctioti " 
of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to 
create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of 
trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the trans-
ition are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect 
o f the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to he served. [Emphasis added.] 
2/ 
In 1970, the five largest banking organizations in Texas, 
held 
aggregate deposits of approximately $5.8 billion, or 22 per cent of the 
total commercial bank deposits in the State. Today, the five largest ^ 
banking organizations in the State (each a multi-bank holding company) 
aggregate deposits approximating $10.6 billion, or almost 31 per cent 
of 
y 
the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
This increase in the 
c°ncentration of the State's commercial bank deposits held by the largest 
banking organizations in Texas represents a trend which, in the Board's 
view, has proceeded to an extent that is a cause for concern. 
Republic NationsBank of Dallas; First National Bank of Dallas; First 
ity National Bank of Houston; Texas Commerce Bank, N.A.; Bank of the South-
west. 
First International Bancshares, Inc.; First City Bancorporation of Texas, 
Republic of Texas Corporation; Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc.; South-
Bancshares, Inc. 
>•' Deposit figures are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect approved and 
ei*ding acquisitions as of November 15, 1973. 

48S7 
-3-
There are presently some 24 multi-bank holding companies in Texas, 
vhich together control $17 billion in deposits, or 49 per cent of all com-
me*cial bank deposits in the State. The five largest of these banking 
Organizations control almost two-thirds of all deposits controlled by the 
State's bank holding companies. The Board is concerned over the present 
size disparity among the State's bank holding companies and the likelihood 
that this disparity may become greater in the future by virtue of the present 
acquisition policy. The Board is not required to await the development of 
u**due concentration among bank holding companies in Texas before it inter-
n e s . 
Indeed, the underlying purpose of the Clayton Act, as incorporated 
i n the Bank Holding Company Act, is to break the force of a trend toward undue 
concentration before it gathers momentum. (See Brown Shoe Co. v. United 
^ates, 370 U.S. 294, 317-18). It is, therefore, the tendency toward 
Ur*due concentration the Board must guard against when viewing the probable 
of an acquisition upon future competition in a banking market. 
Applicant's proposal would affiliate the largest commercial 
kank in the Tyler SMSA banking market with Applicant's 15 present sub-
sidiary banks (with aggregate deposits of $2.8 billion) and Applicant's 
nonsubsidiary banks (with aggregate deposits of $41.9 million). 
There is no significant existing competition between Bank and Applicant's 
pr®sent and prospective banking subsidiaries. Applicant's banking sub-
sidiary closest to Bank is located in Dallas, about 104 miles from Tyler. 
Ac 
c°tdingly, the Board concludes that no significant existing competition 
v°uld be eliminated between Bank and Applicant's banking subsidiaries upon 
c°nsummation of this proposal. 

4888 
-4-
The three largest of the nine banks in the Tyler market hold 82 
Per cent of the area's total commercial bank deposits, and 75 per cent of 
th* area's total IPC deposits in accounts of $100,000 or less. Bank pre-
sently controls 30 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
'tyler market, while the second and third largest banks control, respectively, 
29 and 23 per cent of such deposits. In addition, these three banks together 
c°ntrol a sizeable block of the voting shares of the fourth largest 
ba v 
1/ 
n k in the Tyler market. 
The future prospects of the Tyler market appear 
f u 
avorable in view of the facts of record, including the population growth 
i n the market; Tyler's geographical position as the hub for an extensive 
0 1 1 and lumbering area; and healthy deposit gains in all five Tyler banks, 
local economic conditions favoring a continuation of this trend. It 
is i n this context of a favorable economic market that the potential com-
petitive effects of Applicant's proposal must be considered. 
The available evidence indicates clearly that entry into the 
SniaUer metropolitan areas by the State's largest banking organizations 
thr 
°ugh acquisition of the larger independent commercial banks in these 
ar*as will increase present levels of deposit concentration. It is also 
^Parent that these markets will only become less concentrated if the 
a3or holding companies enter de novo or via foothold acquisitions, thereby 
ating additional competition in the markets. 
T ? o n t r° l l e d 1 7' 8 P e r cent of the voting shares of Southside State 
. 
^ «Xaf' t h r o u8 h Bank's Employees Pension Trust Fund; however, 
V m £ e r 
973 
COIninlttGd t 0 t h e disposition of these shares by 

The Board concludes that this proposal, for this organization, 
in light of previous acquisitions, would have significant adverse effects 
on potential competition with respect to the Tyler SMSA banking market 
and throughout the State. Accordingly, it is the Board's view that the 
competitive factors weigh against approval of this application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f Bank, and of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks, are regarded 
as satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. 
However, these factors do not outweigh the anticompetitive effects 
connected with this proposal. There is no indication in the record that 
the banking needs of the relevant market are not being met. Accordingly, 
although considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served are consistent with approval, they do not outweigh 
the adverse competitive effects of the proposal. It is the Board's 
Judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not be in 
the public interest and that the application should be denied. 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for 
the reasons summarized above. 
6/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 28, 
1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
fiucher, and Holland. Voting against this action: Governors Daane and 
Sheehan, 

TABLE I* 
4830 
Recent Acquisitions of First International Bancshares, Inc. 
N, 
8!at 
a m e of Bank 
^LApproval) 
SMSA 
Market 
Bank Size 
Total 
Deposits 
($ Millions) 
Three 
Bank 
Market 
Number of Concen-
Share 
Market Banks in 
(%) 
Rank 
Market 
tration 
111 
• t. 
^tional 
l ^ K Temple 
6*as (5/25/73) 
Stat 
_ t e National 
C,of Denlson' 
(V 2V73) T e X a S 
0, - of Odessa, 
Killeen-
Temple 
Sherman-
Denison 
Midland-
Odessa 
B K 
ankr3t N a t i o n a l 
* 
Harlingen, Brownsville-
(7/3/ e n > T e X a s 
Harlingen-
San Benito 
r3) 
Citu 
B 
National 
Abji i n Abilene, 
( 9 / ^ e , Texas 
73) 
Abilene 
Sea1 tchings-
W
V National 
ton 
G a l v e s " 
W 
Galveston, 
(9/18/73) 
N 
pirst 
hll°nal B a n ^ of 
- J J fn -
Galveston-
Texas City 
^ 
• Tyler, 
^0r,S (present 
Tyler 
r°Po sal) 
56.1 
37.0 
54.0 
62.7 
88.1 
82.7 
86 
21.4 
16.4 
11.1 
23 
26.4 
24.2 
30 
1st 
3rd 
3rd 
2nd 
2nd 
1st 
1st 
15 
13 
15 
13 
60 
63 
73 
66 
73 
57 
82 
data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect acquisitions approved 
e Board through September 30, 1973. 

_ 4 8 9 1 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS DAANE AND SHEEHAN 
We would approve the application of First International 
Bancshares, Inc., to enter the Tyler SMSA banking market through 
acquisition of the Citizens First National Bank of Tyler. 
While the instant proposal would give Applicant control of 
the largest bank in the Tyler banking market, we note that each of 
the three largest banks in this market are of near-equal size. Thus, 
approval would not give Applicant a dominant position in the market 
n°r raise the barriers to entry for bank holding companies now outside 
this market. We believe the Introduction of a strong and competitive 
holding company such as Applicant in the Tyler banking market will 
foster increased competition there. Furthermore, Citizens has divested 
a substantial block of shares in the fourth largest bank in order to 
elirainate a potentially adverse factor from the consideration of this 
aPplication; we deem this action to be procompetitive. 
There are significant benefits that would flow to the 
banking public through approval of this proposal. Applicant has 
8Peciaiized divisions within its organization which deal with data 
Processing, international trade financing, and the unique problems 
the petroleum industry. Bank and its customers would be able to 
draw upon Applicant's expertise in each of these areas. Moreover, 
^ e entire community would benefit from Bank's increased lending 
Capacity. Thus, we conclude that the convenience and needs of the 

. 4892 
Tyler area would be significantly improved upon approval of this 
Proposal, and that the benefits derived from the acquisition outweigh 
whatever anticompetitive effects that the majority find exist. 
It is apparent from reviewing the recent growth of other 
hanking organizations in Texas that Applicant's competitors have 
been equally active in the acquisition of banks in secondary SMSA's. 
However, none of the five largest bank holding companies in Texas 
has acquired a dominant position in a secondary SMSA, nor have their 
acquisitions 
to date foreclosed the opportunity for other State-wide 
0 r regional bank holding companies to develop in Texas. 
Finally, the majority states: "There is no indication in 
the record that the banking needs of the relevant market are not being 
met.u 
believe, however, that approval would serve - in a modest way -
to foster the economic development of Texas, as well as the Southwest 
re8lon of the United States, by encouraging the development of "local" 
institutions 
which are capable of serving the growing domestic and 
international interests of Texas corporations not now being met by 
banking institutions. The large industrial organizations in 
Texas have a strong need for the kind of financial services that can 
best be fulfilled by large wholesale banking organizations. The 
^elopment i n Texas, of large wholesale banking institutions, capable 
o f competing with similar institutions in the major money centers, 

4893 
-3-
Can only be fostered through acquisitions of smaller banks. Such 
acquisitions will not injure competition at the retail level in 
local markets. It is estimated that the State's banking industry 
is losing a billion dollars a year in potential business to out-of-State 
banks, primarily because Texas banks are not large enough to compete 
effectively with the major money center banks and cannot provide loans 
and 
i/ 
services adequate to meet demand. 
We believe that the continued 
growth of Texas banking organizations is necessary if they are to 
c°mpete effectively in the nation's major money centers. 
i/ Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Business Review, October 1973, p. 7. 
December 28, .1973. 

4894 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
12/13/73 
[12 CFR PARTS 204, 217] 
[REGS. D, Q] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS, .PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Due Bills as Deposits 
The Board of Governors proposes to amend Regulations D and Q 
to classify as "deposits'*, and thereby extend reserve requirements and 
iriterest rate limitations to funds received by member banks through 
issuance of due bills that are uncollateralized. Such treatment 
w°uld apply to due bills issued in connection with sales of securities 
^ero the securities purchased are not delivered to the purchaser at the 
of payment,' ttfiether such funds are received from another bank or 
customers and regardless of the method by which such transaction 
evidenced or recorded—-whether by issuance of an instrument, oral 
u*dertaking 
or understanding, record notation or other manner. The 1966 
endments to Regulations D and Q included due bills issued by a member 
kartk principally as a means of obtaining funds to be used in its banking 
bu£Jiness within the definition of "deposits". Funds received in exchange 
duG bills issued in connection with a "genuine" securities transaction 
it:h respect to which the bank is not in a position to make same-day 
delivery against payment, however, are not now classified as a deposit 
Under Regulations D and Q. The substantial increase in the use of due 
^ U s since adoption of the 1966 amendments evidences an apparent need to 

4835 
- 2 -
apply a clearer standard to due bill transactions and to insure that 
when used as a means of obtaining funds, funds so obtained are subject 
to the reserve and interest rate provisions of Regulations D and Q. 
The proposed amendments would not apply reserve requirements and 
interest rate limitations to due bill transactions that are fully securcd 
ky securities similar to those that are the subject of the due bill trans-
action and thereby would establish a presumption in Regulations D and Q 
^at uncollateralized due bills are issued principally for the purpose 
obtaining funds for the issuing bank. 
To aid in the consideration of the matter by the Board, interested 
are invited to submit relevant data, views, and arguments. Any 
Such material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary of the Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be 
Reived 
not later than January 18, 1974. Such material will be made avail-
for inspection and copying upon request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) 
of-
the Board's rules regarding availability of information. 
To implement its proposal, the Board proposes to amend sections 
of Regulation D (12 CFR part 204) and 217.1(f) of Regulation Q 
CFR 217) by adding a new sentence at the end thereof to read as follows: 
.1—Definitions 
' D c £ i n i t i o n a 
* 
* 
* 
(f) Deposit;s as including certain promissory notes and other 
^ligations. 

4836 
-3-
* 
* 
* 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term 'deposit' includes 
any liability or undertaking on the part of a member bank to sell or 
deliver securities to or purchase securities for the account of any 
customer, involving the receipt cf funds by the member bank or a debit 
to an account of such customer before the securities are delivered, unless 
such liability or undertaking is fully secured by collateral consisting of 
securities similar to and with an aggregate market value at least equal 
to that of the securities which are the subject of the member bank's 
liability or undertaking. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 13, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
[SEAL] 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
