MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 23, 1973 

41*14 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 23, 19 73. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously determined that under 
Section 8 of the Clayton Act and section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 
member banks are not prohibited from having interlocking relationships 
with Midwest Securities Trust Company, a limited purpose trust company 
0r8anized under the laws of Illinois and a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

<3 .% » 
10/23/73 
-2-
the Midwest Stock Exchange. A copy of the letter sent to counsel for 
the Midwest Stock Exchange is attached as Item No. 1. 
With the concurrence of the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
Board unanimously approved a further deferment, at least until November 9, 
1973, of issuance of a notice of intention to remove Louis J. Roussel 
as a director and his son, Louie J. Roussel, III, as a director and 
President of National American Bank of New Orleans, New Orleans, Louisiana. 
This deferment had been requested by the Department of Justice to permit 
time to complete a grand jury investigation into possible criminal 
violations prior to the Board's intended action. A copy of the letter 
sent to U.S. Attorney Gallinghouse is attached as Item No. 2. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Southwest Bancshares. At its meeting on October 15, 19 73, the 
Board denied the request of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, 
for modification of the Board's order of March 23, 1973, approving the 
acquisition of shares of Arlington Bank of Commerce, Arlington, Texas. 
Ihe modification requested would have permitted acquisition of Arlington 
Bank to be effected with cash rather than with stock. In a memorandum 
°f October 19, 19 73, Mr. Leavitt recommended that, in light of subsequent 
discussions with applicant's management, the Board grant a 60-day extension 
time in which applicant may acquire Arlington Bank, on the condition 
that such acquisition not be consummated without prior approval of the 
Board. The Legal Division concurred in this recommendation. 

10/23/73 
-3-
Pursuant to these recommendations and the clarification of the 
applicant's circumstances, the Board unanimously approved a 60-day 
extension of time in which Southwest Bancshares may acquire, subject 
to prior approval of the Board, shares of Arlington Bank of Commerce. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision, 
a copy of which is attached as Item No. 3. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
First National Bank of Denver. In a memorandum of October 11, 
19 73, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
°f the application of The First National Bank of Denver, Denver, Colorado, 
to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 
British West Indies. 
The Board approved the application, Governor Brimmer dissenting. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 5. 
Economic and financial review. The regular weekly economic 
and financial review was presented. Copies of the statistical materials 
Prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, along 
with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Rippey then reviewed legislative developments of interest 
to the System. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
a t tendance. 

1 | ' 
41 JLI*** if 
10/23/73 
-4-
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines. In a memorandum 
of October 17, 1973, Governor Brimmer requested the Board's concurrence 
in a position he proposed to take in meetings with representatives of 
the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Commerce concerning 
the possible phasing out of the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program, 
the Interest Equalization Tax, and the Foreign Direct Investment Program. 
Program should be continued but that some relaxation—perhaps in the 
order of $1 billion of foreign credit—might be appropriate at this time. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, 
Allison, Solomon, and Leavitt and Miss Brown. 
United States National Bank. Governor Bucher reported on the 
recent acquisition of United States National Bank, San Diego, California, 
by Crocker National Bank, San Francisco, California, and he noted that 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco had received full payment for 
credit extended to United States National Bank. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
After discussion, the Board agreed in principle that the VFCR 

\ 
4 # 
£ 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
nr 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
•Item No. 1 
10/23/73 • 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRCSPDNDENCt 
TO THt BUAWD 
• October 23, 1973 
Schj.fi', Hardin & Waite 
231 South LaSalle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 
60604 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter of August 29, 1973, con-
cerning the applicability of section 8 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.Co 19), 
and section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) to interlocking 
relationships between member banks and a new limited purpose trust 
company to be named "Midwest Securities Trust Company" ("MSTC") and 
to interlocking relationships between MSTC and companies "primarily 
engaged" in the issuance, underwriting and distribution of securities. 
MSTC has been organized under the banking laws of the State 
°f Illinois as a limited purpose trust company. It is presently a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Midwest Stock Exchange ("MSE"), and 
Presently functions as the clearing agency for that Exchange. It 
al so functions as a depository for participants® securities and 
effects the transfer and pledge thereof by book-entry, pursuant to 
scction 8-320 of the Uniform Commercial Code, as amended in Illinois. 
However, pursuant to an understanding with the member banks of the 
Chicago Clearing House Association (the "CCHA banks"), MSE has under-
taken to reorganize MSTC by transferring its clearing functions to 
a new subsidiary. When the reorganization is effected, MSTC will 
K remain qualified as a "clearing corporation", as defined in section 
8-102 (3) of the Code, but will perform only depository functions 
of the type contemplated by section 8-320 of the Code. It is anti-
cipated tjiat M S T C W i n then apply for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
MSTC in its reorganized form will initially remain a wholly-
owned subsidiary of MSE. Eventually, however, shares may be sold to 
t^e CCHA banks or their respective holding companies. In anticipation 
that step, MSE has agreed to elect six individuals designated by the 

I 
1 4 1 ^ 9 
Schiff, Hardin & Waite 
-2- 
j 
t 
CC1IA banks to the thirteen-member board of directors of the reorganized 
MSTC. MSE has also agreed to elect a seventh individual, who is to be 
designated jointly by MSE and the CCHA banks, as chairman of the board 
and chief executive officer of MSTC. It is anticipated that some or 
all of the individuals thus designated, as well as other future officers 
or employees of MSTC may be directors, officers or employees of the 
CC1IA' banks. 
It is understood that the principal function of MSTC will 
be to hold securities that are placed with it and to effect transfers 
°f ownership and pledges of such securities (or in the possession of 
hanks serving as custodians which are nominees of MSTC or the custo-
dian banks) by means of entry on its books. Further, you have advised 
that MSTC will not accept commercial or savings deposits, carry check-
ing accounts, make commercial loans, make real estate loans, engage 
in corporate trust business, engage in individual trust business, or 
act as transfer agent for securities. 
Subsection (6) of section 8 and section 212.2(d)(6) of the 
Board's Regulation L (12 CFR 212) excepts from the prohibitions of 
section 8 of the Clayton Act interlocking relationships between a 
member bank and a "bank, banking association, savings bank, or trust 
company not engaged in a class or classes of business in which such 
member bank is engaged." 
A footnote to the regulatory exception provides: 
The phrase "class or classes of business" refers to 
the various types of business engaged in by such institu-
tions involving relationships with customers, such as 
(1) receiving commercial deposits, (2) receiving savings 
deposits, (3) carrying checking accounts, (A) making com-
mercial loans, (5) making real estate loans, (6) making 
loans on stock or bond collateral, (7) making "personal" 
loans of the character usually made by Morris Plan or 
Industrial banks, (8) engaging in corporate trust business, 
and (9) engaging in individual trust business. 
On the basis of the information submitted, it does not appear 
t o the Board that the unique character of the activities to be engaged 
in by MSTC constitute a "class or classes of business" engaged in by 
member banks with their customers. Accordingly, it is the opinion of 
tl*e Board that a director, officer, or employee of a member bank may 
serve as a director, officer, or employee of MSTC without violating 
Sect*ion 8 of the Clayton Act. 

1 4 1 3 0 
Schiff, Hardin & Waite 
-3-
i 
In addition, you raise the question as to whether interlocking 
service between officers, directors or employees of companies that are 
"primarily engaged" in the securities business are prohibited by 
section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 from serving on the board of 
directors of MSTC. It should be noted that section 32 only applies to 
service with a "member bank", unlike section 8 which applies to service 
between a member bank and a "bank, banking association, savings bank 
or trust company". Without foreclosing the possibility that in a 
proper case the Board might consider a member "trust company" to be a 
member "bank" within the spirit and purpose of section 32, the Board 
does not believe, in view of the unique character of the activities 
to be engaged in by MSTC that such a determination is required in this 
case. Accordingly, it is the opinion of the Board that section 32 
does not prohibit persons "primarily engaged" in the securities busi-
ness, as described in that statute, from serving on the board of 
directors of MSTC. 
- 
• v 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

4 1 3 1 
B O A R D • F" G O V E R N CIRS 
iVco,:-. 
nr Ti-ir. 
f i ^ . 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
^o/23/73 
2 
I B M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
ZOJILIL 
AODREi'B CirriCIAt CORRtr.l'nNOtllCE 
TU THfZ BOARD 
The Honorable Gerald J. Gallinghouse 
U.S. Attorney for the Eastern 
• 
• r-:. 
D i s t r i c t of Louisiana 
Attorney's Office 
-J 00 St. 1 ,ou is St r e c t 
New Orleans, Louisiana 70130 
. ^ 
Dear Mr. Gallinghouse: 
This will acknowledge your telegram of October IS, 1973, to 
the Director, Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys,- for transmission to 
the General Counsel, Board of Governors, in which you and representa-
tives of the Department of Justice and the Comptroller of the Currency 
request further deferment until November 9, 1973, of administrative 
action in the Roussel matter to permit you to complete your current, 
c°nt.inuing grand jury investigation into possible criminal violations. 
The Board has authorized deferral of the issuance of the 
Notice of Intention to Remove the Messrs. Roussel, pursuant to your 
request, an action in which the Comptroller has concurred. 
While the Board is pleased to continue its cooperation with 
your office in this matter, in view of the time that has already elapsed, 
the Board believes that issuance of the aforesaid Notice should not be 
deferred beyond November 9, 1973, unless the return of an indictment is 
c°nsidered to be a certainty. 
Please continue to keep the Board currently Informed of the 
Progress of the investigation and any significant developments by com-
plicating with the Board's General Counsel, Mr. Thomas J. O'Connell 
(202-737-/(171, ext. 293). 
Very truly yours, 
I tiii j. 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

413 
Item No. 3 
10/23/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Extension of Time to Acquire Bank 
WHEREAS, by Order of March 23, 1973, the Board approved an 
aPPlication by Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank holding 
Co®Pany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841) 
for 
the Board's approval of an extension of the time period within which 
Appij 
a n t might consummate acquisition of Arlington 3ank of Commerce, 
ArXl*gton, Texas ("Arlington Bank1'); and 
WHEREAS, that Order required that the transaction not be con-
lated later than three months after the effective date of the Order, 
Uniess 
u 
such period was extended for good cause found by the Board, or by 
6 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority; and 
WHEREAS, on three occasions since the expiration of the initial 
month period, Applicant requested and was granted by the Federal 
e Bank of Dallas an extension of time within which to complete its 
^isition of Arlington Bank and the last such extension expires at the 
cl°8e « 
M 
8 e 
business this date, Applicant has requested additional time 
which to complete this transaction; 
NOW THEREFORE, on the basis of the facts of record, including 
format-< 
ation provided by Applicant in connection with its application to 
^CjUir 
e Arlington Bank, the Board hereby extends for sixty days from this 
n e time within which Applicant shall complete its acquisition of 
*tUn8ton Bank; 

4133 
-2 
PROVIDED, however, that, inasmuch as nine months may have elapsed 
f T 
om the date of the Board's Order of March 23, 1973, before Applicant's 
accluisition of Arlington Bank is consummated, the extension herein approved 
is conditioned upon, and the Board's Order of March 23, 1973, is hereby 
^nded to include, a requirement that, prior to consummation of the trans-
Cti°n, Applicant present for the Board's review and final approval, the 
8 of the final acquisition agreement and all facts and circumstances 
6l<iVant t o Applicant's acquisition of Arlington Bank. 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective October 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
( $ E A L ) 

N 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
113-1 
Item No. 4 
10/23/73 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE OOARD 
October 24, 1973 
Mr. A. G. McNeese, Jr. 
President 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc. 
1210 Bank of the Southwest Building 
Houston, Texas 
77001 
Dear Mr. McNeese: 
This i s in reference to the request by Southwest Bancshares, 
Inc., Houston, Texas ("Southwest"), for an extension of the time within 
which to acquire Arlington Bank of Commerce, Arlington, Texas ("Arlington 
Bank"), pursuant to the terms of the Board's Order of March 23, 1973, 
approving Southwest's application to acquire that bank, and is also 
in further response to the proposed revised plan of acquisition of 
Arlington Bank submitted to the Board by Southwest. 
Effective October 23, 1973, by Order of the Board, a copy 
which is enclosed, Southwest has been granted an additional 60-day 
extension of the time period within which to complete its acquisition 
Arlington Bank pursuant to the terms of the acquisition proposal 
approved by the Board in its Order of March 23, 1973. You will note 
that the Order granting the 60-day extension is conditioned upon, and 
the Board's Order of March 23, 1973, is thereby amended to include a 
requirement that Southwest present for the Board's prior review and^ 
approval before consummation of the transaction, the terms of the final 
acquisition agreement and all facts and circumstances relevant to South-
west 1s.acquisition of Arlington Bank. 
The Board's action imposing the aforesaid condition was taken 
• in light 0f thc length of time that will have elapsed since the date 
of 
the Board's Order approving Southwest's application to acquire 
Arlington Bank and, in addition, because of the pendency of an indictment 
returned on June 18, 1973, naming Bank of the Southwest as a defendant 
in connection with alleged preferential bank stock loans made to Robert 
A- Mann, Waco, Texas. Compliance with thc condition will provide an 
°PPortunity for the Board to review thoroughly the terms of the Arlington 
Bank acquisition agreement and the present policies of Southwest s bank 
subsidiaries relating to bank stock loans. 

V. 
413; 
Mr. A. G. McNeese, Jr. 
-2-
As you have been informed by members of the BoardTs staff, in 
connection with its consideration of the factors noted above, the 
Board had before it Southwest's request for Board approval of a revised 
plan of acquisition of Arlington Bank. In issuing its Order granting 
Southwest's request for an extension of time in which to acquire Arlington 
Bank, the Board declined to approve the modified acquisition proposal. 
The Board's action with respect to the proposed modified acquisition plan 
does not foreclose Southwest from including the proposed modification in 
the material forwarded to the Board in compliance with the condition 
contained in the enclosed Order of the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
4i3( 
Item No. 5 
10/23/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 23,1973 
The First National Bank of Denver 
Post Office Box 5808 
Denver, Colorado 
80217 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The First National Bank of Denver, Denver, Colorado, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 
British West Indies, and to operate and maintain such branch subject 
to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and not 
as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United 
States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the 
local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and book-
keeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another 
Party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
going permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
types of activities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, 
(2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
exclusions in provisos (1) and (2) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the fur-
ther condition that adequate information covering the branch's opera-
tions will be maintained at your head office and will be made available 
to the Board and its accredited representatives. The Board should be 
Promptly informed of any modifications in the branch's methods of opera-
tion, including changes in any contract under which services are sup-
plied to the branch. 

The First National Bank 
of Denver 
-2-
41.37 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Re serve Bank of Kansas City, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the 
States of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt 
from any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 
and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches arc not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D. The general 
purpose of these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United 
States banks to compete abroad with foreign banks. In these 
circumstances, it has long been and continues to be the policy of the 
Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by United States res-
idents at foreign branches of United States banks unless such 
deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose in 
connection with foreign or international transactions outside the 
United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
Poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the bal-
ance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in 
the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed 
°n resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood that any investment required will be made within the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
