MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 30, 1973 

lli-4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, April 30, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate 
Director, 
Division of International Finance If 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
c°pies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
Placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Staff members who had attended only for purposes of the review 
then withdrew and the following entered: 
•A/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4/30/73 
-2-
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Messrs. Gardner and Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
Mr. Farnsworth of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Consent calendar. Pursuant to a recommendation by the Committee 
on Federal Reserve Bank Activities, the Board unanimously approved the 
Payment of salary to Mr. Thomas C. Rowe as General Auditor of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis at the rate fixed by the Bank's Board of 
Directors. A copy of the letter sent to the Bank is attached as 
.Item No. 1. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Committee on Federal Reserve 
Bank Activities, the Board unanimously approved the payment of salary 
t o Mr. Gerald R. Kelly as Senior Vice President in charge of the Los 
Angeles Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco at the rate 
fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. A copy of the letter sent to 
Bank is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
Pennsylvania Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to acquire shares 
First Pennsylvania International Limited, Cayman Islands. A copy of 
e letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Seattle-First 
Na f- i 
xonal Bank, Seattle, Washington, to establish a branch in London, 

11/1*29 
4/30/73 
-6-
England. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Fidelity Union 
Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey, to acquire shares of Suburban Finance 
Company of Newark, Newark, New Jersey, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
Tennessee National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, to acquire shares 
°f the successor by merger to The Fountain City Bank, Knoxville, 
Tennessee, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First United 
Bancorporation, Inc., Forth Worth, Texas, to acquire shares of Cleburne 
National Bank, Cleburne, Texas, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter responding to the request 
the Office of Management and Budget for the Board's views on H. R. 2811, 
a bill to tax the income of Federal land banks, Federal land bank asso-
C lations, and Federal intermediate credit banks. A copy of the letter 
i s attached as Item No. 8. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division of Supervision and 
Ggulation in a memorandum of April 24, 1973, the Board unanimously 
Approved letters to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the 

11/1*29 
4/30/73 
-6-
Chicago Board Options Exchange regarding inaccurate statements with 
respect to margin requirements in the prospectus issued by the Exchange. 
Copies of the letters are attached as Items 9 and 10. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Virginia National Bankshares. On April 26, 1973, the Board 
approved the application of Virginia National Bankshares, Inc., Norfolk, 
Virginia, to acquire shares of Atlantic Credit Corporation, the successor 
by reorganization to Atlantic Discount Corporation, Elizabeth City, North 
Carolina. Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and Bucher voted for approval 
conditioned upon sale of Atlantic Credit Corporation's subsidiary in 
Suffolk, Virginia, on the ground that outright approval would eliminate 
significant existing competition for automobile financing in the Suffolk 
a^ea between that subsidiary and the Suffolk branch of the applicant's 
lead bank. Governors Daane and Sheehan voted for unconditional approval. 
Governor Daane indicated that he would ask for reconsideration of the 
C a s e , and therefore issuance of the Board's order reflecting conditional 
aPproval was withheld. 
The staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond believed that 
listing competition for automobile financing in Suffolk was not a 
s i8nificant factor, and at today's meeting Mr. Farnsworth, Assistant 
^ice President of the Bank, described the results of a survey made in 
last few days regarding the automobile financing market in Suffolk. 
Th survey indicated that the share of that market represented by the 

1428 
4/30/73 
-5-
combined business of the branch of the applicant's lead bank and the 
subsidiary of Atlantic Credit Corporation was in fact substantially-
less than had appeared from data previously available. 
A motion to reconsider the case having been carried, the Board 
unanimously approved the application without the condition previously 
attached, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 11. 
First Jersey National Corporation. In a memorandum of April 24, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of First Jersey National 
Corporation, Jersey City, New Jersey, to acquire the loans, accounts 
and notes receivable, and fixed assets of Atlantic City Loan Company, 
Atlantic City, New Jersey. The Legal Division, in a memorandum of 
April 
27, noted that the acquisition was to be accomplished through a 
Present nonbanking subsidiary that First Jersey National Corporation 
had not yet applied for permission to retain. The Division recommended 
that, pending such retention application and the Board's ruling on it, 
aPproval of the present application be conditioned upon separate main-
tenance of assets of the new subsidiary from the Corporation's other 
n°nbanking subsidiaries. The Division recommended also that the staff 
Permitted to reject similar applications in the future until the 
^°ard had considered appropriate applications to retain nonbanking 
interests. 

11/1*29 
4/30/73 
-6-
The Board unanimously approved the application, with the 
recommended condition, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 12. The procedural 
recommendation of the Legal Division was also approved unanimously. 
Marine Midland Western International. In a memorandum of 
April 17, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the application of Marine Midland Western International 
Corporation, Buffalo, New York, (1) to purchase shares of MM Financial 
Limited, Toronto, Canada; (2) to purchase through the latter organiza-
tion shares of MM Builders Funds Limited, also of Toronto; and (3) to 
continue to hold shares of MM Financial Limited after the latter issues 
certain debt obligations. 
The application was approved unanimously. A copy of the letter 
sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 13. 
Southeast Banking Corporation and Northwest Bancorporation. In 
a memorandum of April 11, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
r ecommended approval of the applications of Southeast Banking Corporation, 
^iami, Florida, and Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
c 
0 r each bank holding company (1) to retain its 50 per cent investment 
l n Compass Finance S.A., Luxembourg, and the latter
1s subsidiaries: 
^°Mpass Bank and Trust Company, Limited, Nassau, Bahamas; Compass Finance 
^•K.) Limited, London, England; and Cofiber, S.A., Madrid, Spain; (2) 
to e stablish through Compass Finance S.A., Luxembourg: 
Compass Finance 

8 
4/30/73 
-5-
(U.S.), Miami, Florida; Compass Bank Luxembourg (S.A.), Luxembourg; 
and Compass Bank and Trust Company (Cayman) Limited, Grand Cayman, 
Cayman Islands; and (3) to invest an additional amount in shares of 
Compass Finance S.A., Luxembourg. 
The applications were approved, Governor Robertson dissenting 
on the ground that he considered the two bank holding companies large 
enough to conduct international operations independently of each other. 
Governor Daane suggested that the staff be watchful of subsequent 
applications that might indicate that separate operations in the 
international field would be desirable. Copies of the letters sent 
to the applicants are attached as Items 14 and 15. 
First National Holding Corp. In a memorandum of April 9, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of First National 
folding Corp., Atlanta, Georgia, to acquire substantially all of the 
assets of Fairlane Finance Co., Inc., Easley, South Carolina. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
Itemjjp. 16. 
Regulation Z. The Division of Supervision and Regulation, for 
r easons set forth in a memorandum of April 27, 1973, recommended that 
th 
G froard (1) publish for comment a proposed amendment to Regulation Z, 
T r u t h in Lending, that would require a creditor to disclose whether his 

4/30/73 
-9-
instalment contract provides for a rebate of finance charges in the 
event of prepayment, and (2) issue an interpretation specifying that 
the method of rebate—such as the "rule of 78's"--may be identified 
on a disclosure statement without including a mathematical formula or 
narrative description that might detract from the other important dis-
closures required by the Regulation. Draft Federal Register notices 
were attached. 
Governor Robertson said that he saw no alternative to the 
proposed interpretation, but noted that the "rule of 78
1s" was little 
understood and expressed the view that adverse comment should be 
expected. 
The Board unanimously approved publication of the proposed 
amendment and issuance of the interpretation. Attached under Item No. 17 
a r e copies of the press release issued in this connection and the rele-
vant Federal Register notices. 
Hunt Commission recommendations. The Office of Management and 
Budget had requested the Board's views on the Administration's proposals 
implementing the recommendations of the President's Commission on 
financial Structure and Regulation (the Hunt Commission). In a memorandum 
April 26, 1973, the Division of Research and Statistics discussed the 
p rinci Pal issues involved and suggested a response substantially similar 
t o the Board's letter of April 5, 1973, to Deputy Secretary of the 
Trp 
easury Simon regarding an earlier stage of development of measures 

^ i 4 31 
4/30/73 
-9-
to implement the recommendations. A draft of letter to the Office of 
Management and Budget had been distributed. 
Discussion at today's meeting emphasized that the letter should 
stress the need for uniform reserve requirements on demand deposits in 
commercial banks, as had Chairman 
Burns in an address on April 26, 1973, 
before a meeting of the American Bankers Association. 
In response to an expression of special interest in Governor 
Robertson's views, since this was his last day of service as a member 
of the Board, Governor Robertson indicated general satisfaction with 
the positions taken in the draft reply. He believed that reserve require-
ments should be the same at all commercial banks, and although he thought 
there was a distinction between thrift institutions and banks, he favored 
reserve requirements for both member and nonmember banks on all time as 
W e l l as demand deposits that were subject to withdrawal by check. 
It was suggested that since some members of the Board had not 
Had sufficient time to study the proposed reply, they give Mr. Chase 
any 
comments they had after such a study, in order that their views 
might be reflected to the extent possible in a revised draft to be con-
sidered by the Board later this week. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1433 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
.'•"oVcovV-. 
O F T H E 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
4/30/73 
' * 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F f l C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
* f^M Kf3 •' 
May 1, 1973 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis 
President 
Federal Re serve Bank 
of St. Louis 
P. 0. Box 442 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
Hie Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of. salary to Mr. Thomas C. Rowe as General Auditor at the. 
a n n m l rate of $25,000 for the period May 1 through 
December 31, 1973. 
This is the rate fixed by your Board 
of Directors as reported in your letter of April 12, 
1973. 
Very truly yours. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Scoretary 

1434 
. •i L^ : • • •• J : tu 
'
i
l
l 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C, 20551 
Item No. 13 
4/30/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 5 P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 1, 1973 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. John J. Balles 
President 
Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco 
400 Sansome Street 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Mr. Balles: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Mr. Gerald R. Kelly as Senior Vice President 
in charge of the Los Angeles Branch of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco at the annual rete of $37,500 f o r ' 
the period May 1 through December 31, 1973. 
This is the 
salary fixed by your Board of Directors as reported in 
your letter of April 12, 1973. 
The Board also notes that Mr. Paul Cavan, 
Senior Vice President at Los Angeles, will be transferred 
to the Seattle Branch as the senior officer in charge 
with no increase in his current salary of $40,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary 

•^OFCO 
mm 
f j i i i f i i r 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
4/30/73 
ADOKCSS O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O f 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1973 
First Pennsylvania Corporation 
Fifteenth and Chestnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19102 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 31, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation ("FPC") 
to purchase and hold all of the shares of First Pennsvlvania Inter-
national Limited ("FPIL"), Cayman Islands, at a cost of approximately 
y^5,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
d a t e of this letter. 
A s 
a subsidiary of a bank holding comoany under Sec-
tion 4(c)(13), FPIL shall confine its activities to international or 
^oreign banking and other international or foreign financial opera-
av°M*
 
I n 
a d d i t ; i o r l >
 
F P C 
w
i
U maintain at its head office and make 
ailable to the Board's examiners adequate information concerning 
ne operations and activities of FPIL. 
C
o
 
I
n 
C h a n t i n g this consent, it is understood that the trust 
a s
m P
a n y will be used for developing international business and not 
Uui? T
a
n
S °
f s h i f t i n S domestic trust business from offices in the 
reo-,
 
S t a t e s -
 
I n particular, FPIL should do no business with U.S. 
i n !
 
n t s 
u n l e s s such business is clearly related to a bona fide 
Gtnational or foreign business transaction. 
j>h. 
# 
addition, FPC shall maintain at its head office in 
i n f o
a d e l ?
h i a 
a n d 
m a k c 
a v a i l a b l e 
t : o examiners of the Board complete 
^ o r m a t i o n on FPIL's transactions with U.S. residents and informa-
t 0 J "
e c e s s a r y to assess the financial condition of FPIL. 
Failure 
a v i i
 
a d e c l
u a C e information available to examiners shall be deemed 
eolation of this consent. 

. 1136 
First Pennsylvania Corporation 
-2-
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company 
and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
— 
/
r 
/ s . 
/ J Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
Item No. 4 
4/30/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 30, 1973 
Seattle-First National Bank 
1001 Fourth Avenue 
Seattle, Washington 
98124 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors grants its permission to Seattle-First 
National Bank, Seattle, Washington, pursuant to tine provisions of Sec-
tion 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in London, 
England, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the pro-
visions of such Section and of Regulation M . 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before May 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall be 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home o f f i c e (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board's 
c°ncern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance 
o f payments, the above c o n s e n t is given on the condition that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
r-sources obtained outside the United States. Furthermore, it is 
U r icUrs tood that the investment required will be made in conformity 
vit'n the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your 
baak and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

14 
Item No. 5 
4/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIDELITY UNION BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Suburban Finance Company of Newark 
Fidelity Union Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire all of the voting 
shares of Suburban Finance Company of Newark, Newark, New Jersey 
("Suburban"). Suburban engages in the activities of (1) making small 
Personal loans to individuals, (2) making personal loans secured by 
S econd mortgages on residential real estate, and (3) acting as agent 
f o r the sale of credit life and disability insurance covering the 
U nPaid balance of outstanding loans made by Suburban. Such activities 
have been determined by the Board to be closely related to the business 
o f hanking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
h a s been duly published (38 Federal Register 3627). The time for 
filing comments and views has expired and none have been timely received. 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of 
million, representing 5.2 per cent of the total deposits of 
c°nimercial banks in New Jersey.1/ Two of Applicant's subsidiary banks, 
E l u d i n g its lead bank, are located in the relevant market area.±
/ 
2 / 
banking data are as of June 30, 1972. 
The relevant market area is approximated by the Greater Newark 
p,
e a> which consists of Eflflex County, Union County except for the 
Vj
 ai-nfield area, the eastern half of Morris County, and Hudson County 
s t of the Hackensack River. 

1439 
-2-
Suburban (total assets of $6.5 million) also has the majority 
its seven offices in the greater Newark area, so that there is 
direct competition between Applicant's two banking subsidiaries and 
Suburban in the market for small consumer installment loans. 
However, 
Suburban is not a large factor with approximately 4 per cent of the 
market and total outstandings of $3.8 million as of May 31, 1972. If 
small consumer installment loans of Applicant's subsidiary banks, 
x,?hich approximate one and a half per cent of the market, are added to 
Suburban's consumer installment loans, the resulting figure would still 
r epresent only about five and a half per cent of the relevant market. 
Moreover, there are 28 consumer finance companies located in the 
heater Newark market and there are 33 commercial banks which make 
S t n ail consumer installment loans. Considering the large number of 
Ending alternatives, the Board is of the opinion that Applicant's 
ac<luisition of Suburban would not have a significant effect on existing 
°
r Potential competition in the small consumer installment loan 
arket. Suburban acts as an agent for the sale of credit insurance 
e^ated to loans it originates. Due to the limited nature of this 
c tivity Applicant's acquisition of Suburban would not appear to have 
signifi c a n ti.y adverse effect on competition in this product line. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consum-
mate 
n of the proposal would result in any undue concentration of 
S °
U t c e s > unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound 
^ankin 
n 8 practices. Approval of the application, by giving Suburban 

_1440 
-3-
access to Applicant's financial resources, should enhance its competitive 
effectiveness and enable it to expand the range of services it offers. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that consummation of the 
Proposal herein can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the 
Public that outweigh possible adverse effects. 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. 
This 
^termination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
o f Regulation Y and the Board's authority to require such modification 
°
r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
at*d orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,2/ effective April 30, 1973. 
(Signed) 
Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
^ 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^
a a n e , Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governors 
1tchell and Brimmer. 

1441 
Item No. 13 
4/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST TENNESSEE NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Tennessee National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
^42(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of the successor by merger 
t o The Fountain City Bank, Knoxville, Tennessee ("Bank"). The bank into 
^ich Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means to facili-
t y 
e the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the pro-
v e d acquisition of shares of the successor organization is treated herein 
s the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e rSons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
nas been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
tn 
X i8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Tennessee, controls 
e V e n banks with aggregate deposits of $1,013 billion representing 
Ppr°ximately 11 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
stat-e* 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding 
Pany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through March 19, 
I973 \ 
, J 
The acquisition of Bank (deposits of $48.9 million) would increase 

_ 1442 
-6-
^pplicant's percentage share of deposits in the State by less than six-tenths 
one per cent and would not result in a significant increase in the con-
j u r a t i o n of banking resources in Tennessee. 
Bank, located in Knoxville, Tennessee, is the fifth largest of 
thirteen banks in the Knoxville banking market (approximated by the 
l v U o x ville<SMSA) .' pank. holds 5.7, per cent of total market deposits, 
^ereas the four largest banks each control approximately 32, 23, 10, 
anc* 7 p e r cent, respectively. Applicant's nearest subsidiary banking office 
located in a separate market area, approximately 40 miles east of Bank. 
G distances between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries preclude significant 
p r eaent competition between them. Furthermore, due to the distances involved 
restrictions placed on branching by Tennessee laws, there is little 
^ability of substantial future competition developing between any of 
PPlicant's subsidiaries and Bank. The Board concludes that consummation of 
the 
Proposal would not eliminate existing or potential competition, nor 
it have significantly adverse effects on any competing bank. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
f 
Ul-ure prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are 
f a c t o r y and consistent with approval of the application. While it 
r s that major banking needs in the area are being met, considerations 
a ting t 0 the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are 
C°
nsist-
i-ent with approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment 
thp 
i e proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that 
the ^Plication should be approved. 
that 

_1443 
-3-
Applicant controls two nonbanking subsidiaries, Norlen Life 
Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona, and Investors Mortgage Service, Inc., 
Memphis, Tennessee, which were acquired on October 21, 1969, and on 
January 17, 1969, respectively. Norlen Life Insurance Company reinsures 
underwriters of credit life insurance, and Investors Mortgage Service, Inc., 
i s a mortgage broker which manages real estate for others and develops 
real estate. Investors Mortgage Service, Inc., owns two subsidiaries, 
G riffen Mortgage Company, a mortgage broker acquired on December 4, 1969, 
a n c i Investors Service, Inc., a real estate developer acquired on January 8, 
1970. 
In approving this application, the Board finds that the combination 
of an additional subsidiary bank with Applicant's existing nonbanking sub-
sidiar-j.es is unlikely to have an adverse effect upon the public interest at 
the 
Present time. However, Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities 
t e m a i n subject to Board review and the Board retains the authority to require 
Applicant to modify or terminate its nonbanking activities or holdings if 
1 1 6 Board at any time determines that the combination of Applicant's banking 
n d nonbanking activities is likely to have adverse effects on the public 
M e r e s t . 
On the basis cf the record, the application is approved for the 
^eaonc 
4t> summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
kef 0 r 
the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 

-4-
1444 
o r (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
s^ch period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,"" effective April 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
She y°
t i n g f o r 
t h i s 
a c t i o n : Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
a n 
a n d Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

1445 
Item No. 13 
4/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST UNITED BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First United Bancorporation, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of Cleburne National Bank, Cleburne, Texas ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
anc* the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n U g h t of the factors set forth in <5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the second largest multi-bank holding company head-
bartered in the Fort Worth SMSA, has four subsidiary banks" in that 
2/ 
a r e a which control aggregate deposits of $586 million, 
representing 
1 Q 
Per cent of commercial bank deposits in the State. If the proposed 
is approved, Applicant's share of the SMSA deposits will 
i t l c^ease by about 1 per cent, and Applicant's position in relation to 
State's other banking organizations xaould remain unchanged. 
,
APPlicant 
owns 24.9 per cent of the voting shares of each of two 
2/ J^ional banks in the Fort Worth SMSA. 
for
 
k i n g 
d a t a 
a r G 
a s 
o f 
J u n e 
3 0 »
 
1 9 7 2 »
 
a n d reflect holding company 
Nations and acquisitions approved through February 28, 1973. 

i_1446 
-2-
Bank ($21 million in deposits), the second largest bank in 
Cleburne, is the 21st largest bank in the Fort Worth SMSA, controlling 
1 per cent of deposits in commercial banks in the SMSA. 
Although all of Applicant's present subsidiary banks and Bank 
a r e located in the Fort Worth SMSA, the nearest subsidiary is located 
miles from Bank. Bank primarily serves the Cleburne area, and there 
appears to be little competition between Bank and any of Applicant's 
Present subsidiaries. The Fort Worth area has experienced rapid growth 
°
ver the past 10 years, but Cleburne's growth has not kept pace. 
In 
vlew of this, de novo entry into Cleburne does not appear attractive. 
does not appear likely that meaningful competition between Bank and 
Applicant would develop in the future in view of the distances involved, 
tlle number of intervening banks, and Texas' restrictive branching laws, 
^ e Board concludes that competitive considerations are consistent with 
aPproval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Bank, and of Applicant and Its present subsidiaries, are regarded as 
S a tisfactory. 
Applicant intends to increase the equity capital of its 
l e a d bank by $10 million within the next 12 months. Accordingly, con-
c e p t i o n s relating to the banking factors are consistent with approval. 
Applicant proposes to introduce a number of new services at 
including installment loan and trust services. 
Considerations 
bating to the convenience and needs of the community to be served 

i : 1447 
-3-
are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
Cn the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
37~Voting for this action: 
Chairman B u m s and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
heehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and 
dimmer. 

1448 
Item No. 8 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
4/30/73 
or 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20531 
„ 
A O O R C S 3 
O F F I C I A L 
C O U « f S P C N C> C N C C 
T U 
T H E 
U O A R D 
April 30, 1973 
Mr, Jarr.es F , C , Hyde 
Legislative Reference Division 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D.C. 
20503 
D e a r 
M r 0 
H y d e : 
This refers to your Legislative Referral Memorandum dated 
April 20, 1973, requesting the Board's views on H.R. 2811, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code to subject Federal I.a' J banks, Federal 
land bank associations, and Federal intermediate credit banks to income 
taxation under the Code, 
The Board favors the objective of promoting fair competition 
between the. cooperative Farn Credit System ("the System") and other 
institutions active in farm lending and related ii.nanci.al a er vices • 
Competition will, be fair if the System is free of significant elements 
of Federal subsidy. One possible element of Federal subsidy retained 
under oresent law is the general exemption of Federal Land banks, Federal 
land bank associations, and Federal intermediate credit banks from Fed-
era 1 inc.or.ie taxe s 6 
v 
• The Board has no expertise on the merits of present tax treat-
ment affecting the System. The Board urges the Administration, in de-
termining whether or not to support the bill, to make an assessment as 
to whether the continuation of exemption of the named institutions riorn 
Federal income taxes is consistent with the rubli. interest in promoting 
fair competition between the System and other lenders- 
In so recommend-
ing, the Board renews an earlier suggestion alerts the same lines con-
tained in the fourth paragraph of its letter dated March 19, 19/1, to 
your Office regarding the Farm Credit Act of 1971. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynrm Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
W 
4 -
of Co 
T-r- i< 
[ r / ii i 
; ! l f ! | 
Pvfc 

1149 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 9 
h f t h e 
4/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
i i f r i - i ^ s 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C 0 R N € S P • N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 2, 1973 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
500 North Capitol Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20549 
Attention: 
Mr. Lee A. Packard 
Gentlemen: 
On February 20, 1973, the Board of Governors adopted an inter' 
pretation answering several questions that had been raised concerning 
the treatment of put and call options under its Regulation T (12 CFR 
220). Copies of the interpretation were mailed to interested parties 
and the interpretation was published in the Federal Register on 
February 27, 1973 (38 F. R. 5237). 
} 
Among other details, the interpretation itemized the option 
transactions which could be effected in a special cash account pursuant 
to § 220.4(c) of the regulation. 
(Up to this point option transactions 
were handled in the general (margin) account only). One of the permis-
s i b1e tran s a ctions wa s : 
"the endorsement, guarantee or issuance of a put 
or call if (in the case of a put) sufficient funds 
to purchase the underlying stock or (in the case 
of a call) the underlying stock itself are held in 
the account." 
In the name interpretation the Board also concluded that puts 
and calls may not be considered to be securities which are exchangeable 
°r convertible into other securities, within 90 calendar days, without 

1150 
- 2 -
restriction other than the payment of money so as to make them acceptable 
under Regulation T in lieu of the margin required in respect of a short 
sale under § 220.3(d)(3) of the regulation or as a component of a bona 
fide arbitrage transaction under § 220.4(d). 
On April 17, 1973, a copy of the prospectus of the Chicago 
Board Options Exchange ("CBOE") Clearing Corporation dated April 5, 1973, 
was received at the Board's office. This prospcctus, which covers 
Chicago Board Call Options, contains two misstatements in the section 
on margin requirements. The paranthetical phrase in the next to last 
sentence on page 18 indicates that a person can write an option in the 
cash account if he "owns the underlying stock and has agreed promptly 
to deposit such stock in a cash account with his broker." The Board's 
interpretation, however, limits the writing of an option in a cash 
account to situations where the underlying security is already in the 
physical possession of the broker. 
On page 19 of the prospectus there is a "general summary of 
margin requirements applicable to writers under the rules of the "Ex-
change". 
Paragraph 2-of this summary provides an exception for an 
uncovered option writer to the general margin requirements (roughly 
2007o of the current market value of the option) described in paragraph 
1. It reads: 
1. 
"As an exception to the requirement described 
in the first; sentence of paragraph 1, in the 
event an uncovered writer holds in his account a 
security (including a Chicago Board Option) 
exchangeable or convertible within 90 days without 
restriction other than the payment of money into 
the underlying stock, the minimum margin required 
to be maintained is 10% of the greater of the mar-
ket value of such security or of the Option. 
In 
addition, as described in the second sentence of 
paragraph 1, the Option written must be marked to 
the market: on a daily basis." 
The language in this paragraph is deceptive because it includes 
a Chicago Board Option within the term "a security . . * exchangeable 
convertible within 90 clays without: restriction other than the payment 
money into the underlying stock" when such an option clearly cannot 
ke so included under the Board's interpretation of February 20, 1973. 

_ 1*1 t>l 
- 3 -
We would appreciate being advised of any remedial action which 
the Commission finds it appropriate to take in order to correct the 
errors in the CBOE prospectus. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
cc: Mr. Martin Moskowitz 
Ms. Mary E. Beach 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R B 
Item No. 10 
4/30/73 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P 0 N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
M a y 2 , 1 9 7 3 
Mr. Joseph Sullivan 
President 
Chicago Board Options Exchange 
LaSalle at Jackson 
Chicago, Illinois 
60604 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
On February 20, 1973, the Board of Governors adopted an inter-
pretation answering several questions that had been raised concerning 
the treatment: of put and call options under its Regulation T (12 CFR 
220). 
Copies of the interpretation were mailed to interested parties 
and the interpretation was published in the Federal Register on 
February 27, 1973 (38 F. R. 5237). 
Among other details, the interpretation itemized the option 
transactions which could be effected in a special cash account pursuant 
to § 220.4(c) of the regulation. 
(Up to this point option transactions 
were handled in the general (margin) account only). 
One of the permis-
sib3e transactions was: 
"the endorsement, guarantee or issuance of a put 
or call if (in the case of a put) sufficient funds 
to purchase the underlying stock or (in the case 
of a call) the underlying stock itself are held in 
rhe account." 
In the same interpretation the Board also concluded that puts 
and calls may not be considered to be securities which are exchangeable 
or convertible into other securities, within 90 calendar days, without 

1453 
Mr. Joseph Sullivan 
- 2 -
restriction other than the payment of money so as to make them acceptable 
under Regulation T in lieu of the margin required in respect of a short 
sale under § 220.3(d)(3) of the regulation or as a component of a bona 
fide arbitrage transaction under § 220.4(d). 
On April 17, 1973, a copy of the prospectus of the Chicago 
Board Options Exchange ("CBOE") Clearing Corporation dated April 5, 1973, 
was received at the Board's office. This prospectus, which covers 
Chicago Board Call Options, contains two misstatements in the section 
on margin requirements. The paranthetical phrase in the next to last 
sentence on page 18 indicates that a person can write an option in the 
cash account if he "owns the underlying stock and has agreed promptly 
to deposit such stock in a cash account with his broker." The 3oard's 
interpretation, however, limits the writing of an option in a cash 
account to situations where the underlying security is already in the 
physical possession of the broker. 
On page 19 of the prospectus there is a "general summary of 
margin requirements applicable to writers under the rules of the "Ex-
change". Paragraph 2 of this summary provides an exception for an 
uncovered option writer to the general margin requirements (roughly 
200% of the current market value of the option) described in paragraph 
1. It reads: 
1. 
"As an exception to the requirement described 
in the first sentence of paragraph 1, in the 
event an uncovered writer holds in his account a 
security (including a Chicago Board Option) 
exchangeable or convertible within 90 days without 
restriction other than the payment of money into 
the underlying stock, the minimum margin required 
to be maintained is 10% of the greater of the mar-
ket value of such security or of the Option. 
In 
addition, as described in the second sentence of 
paragraph 1, the Option written must be marked to 
the market on a daily basis." 
The language in this paragraph is deceptive because it includes 
a Chicago Board Option within the term "a security . . . exchangeable 
or convertible within 90 days without restriction other than the payment 
of money into the underlying stock" when such an option clearly cannot 
he so included under the Board's interpretation of February 20, 1973. 

. 1454 
Mr. Joseph Sullivan 
- 3 -
We would appreciate being advised of any remedial action which 
is taken in order to correct the errors in the CBOE prospectus. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
cc: Mr. James H. Pipkin, Jr., Steptoe & Johnson 
Mr. Burton R. Rissman, Schiff, Hardin, Wait.e, Dorschel & Britton 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 11 
4/30/73 
VIRGINIA NATIONAL BANKSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Atlantic Discount Corporation 
Virginia National Bankshares, Inc., Norfolk, Virginia, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y , to acquire all of the voting 
shares of Atlantic Credit Corporation, Elizabeth City, North Carolina, 
the successor by reorganization to Atlantic Discount Corporation, 
("Atlantic") Elizabeth City, North Carolina. Atlantic, through its 
operating subsidiaries, engages 
sales finance company activities; 
consumer finance company activities; acting as agent in the sale of credit 
life insurance, credit accident and health insurance, and automobile 
Physical damage insurance in connection with extensions of credit by its 
finance company subsidiaries; reinsurance of credit life and credit 
2/ 
accident and health insurance;-' and mortgage company activities. 
s^ch activities have generally been determined to be closely related to 
hanking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1),(3),(9), and (10)). A bank holding company 
way acquire a company engaged in an activity determined by the Board to be 
closely related to banking provided that the proposed acquisition is 
Warranted under the relevant public interest factors specified in § 4(c)(8) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1848(c)(8)). 
A/ 
IrTaddition to the activities enumerated above, Atlantic is also 
engaged in the conduct of a general insurance agency in North Carolina 
through its mortgage banking subsidiary. Such activity has not been de-
termined by the Board to be closely related to banking and will be ter-
minated if the proposed acquisition is approved. 
It Atlantic's reinsurance subsidiary presently also acts as an reinsurer 
credit life and credit accident and health insurance policies for third 
Parties. If the acquisition is approved, the proposed subsidiary would 
act as reinsurer solely for Atlantic and other subsidiaries of Applicant. 

; _ 1456 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity 
interested 
persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 4539). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in Virginia, 
controls two banks with aggregate deposits of $1.1 billion representing 
11.3 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1972 adjusted to reflect bank holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through March 31, 1973.) 
Atlantic performs management and accounting services for its 
operating subsidiaries and does not directly transact any business with 
the public. Nineteen of its 21 operating subsidiaries are engaged in 
finance company activities while the other two subsidiaries are engaged 
in mortgage company activities and the reinsurance of credit life and 
credit accident and health insurance policies, respectively. Seven of 
the subsidiaries are sales finance companies engaged primarily in fin-
ancing automobile purchases through direct and indirect instalment loans 
and also furnish wholesale inventory financing to automobile dealers while 
twelve are consumer finance companies engaged almost exclusively in 
taking small loans. As of April 30, 1972, the sales finance companies had 
°
utstanding loans of $6.5 million and the consumer finance companies had 
°
utstanding loans of $3.6 million. The finance companies also act as 
a8ent for the sale of credit life insurance, credit accident and health 
insurance, and automobile physical damage insurance in connection with 
their extensions of credit. 

-3-
_ 1457 
All of Atlantic's consumer finance subsidiaries and six of the 
seven sales finance subsidiaries are located in the northeastern third 
of North Carolina. The seventh sales finance subsidiary is located in 
Suffolk, Virginia. Applicant does not engage in consumer or sales finance 
company activities in North Carolina nor does there appear to be a sub-
stantial likelihood that it will engage de novo in these activities in 
North Carolina. Applicant's lead bank has a branch office in Suffolk, 
Virginia, which during 1972 made automobile loans totaling $215 thousand 
representing approximately 2 per cent of the automobile loans made in the 
Suffolk area while Atlantic made automobile loans totaling $470 thousand 
representing approximately 5 per cent of the automobile loans made in the 
Market during 1972. Although there may be some overlap in the customers 
served by Atlantic and Applicant's banking subsidiary, it does not appear 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would have a significantly 
adverse effect on competition for automobile loans in the Suffolk market. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that approval of the application insofar 
a s it relates to the finance company subsidiaries of Atlantic would not 
appear to have any significant adverse effect on existing or potential 
competition. The competitive effects of the proposed insurance agency 
activities are also regarded as consistent with approval of the application 
Atlantic's mortgage company subsidiary originated $1.5 million 
mortgage loans for itself and others in the year ending April 30, 1972 
and had a mortgage servicing portfolio of $3.1 million as of that date, 
applicant has only a nominal amount of mortgage loans in North Carolina 
a n d approval of the application would not eliminate any meaningful existing 

1458 
-2-
competition. While there is some reason to believe that Applicant might 
enter the North Carolina mortgage banking market de novo, the small size 
of the proposed subsidiary mortgage company makes unlikely any significant 
elimination of future competition by consummation of the proposed acquisition 
The competitive effects of the proposal, insofar as they relate to the 
Mortgage company, are consistent with approval of the application. 
Applicant's greater access to financial resources may assure 
Atlantic of more ready access to funds and enable it to become a more 
effective competitor, and thus increase public convenience and stimulate 
competition with affiliates of larger regional and national financial 
°
rganizations active in both the finance company and mortgage company 
industries in the relevant markets. Based upon the foregoing and other 
considerations reflected in the record, the Board has determined that the 
lance of the public interest factors the Board is required to consider 
under § 4(c)(8) is favorable with respect to the proposed finance company, 
^rtgage company and insurance agency activities. 
Atlantic also engages in the activity of underwriting, as re-
in 
asurer, of credit life and credit accident and health insurance which is 
dj 
rectly related to its extensions of credit. Applicant has also indicated 
t h a t the proposed underwriting activities would include underwriting such 
in 
S urance for its subsidiaries as well. Applicant does not presently 
°
n8age i n insurance underwriting activities and the proposed affiliation 
i t h A p p H c a n t would appear to have no significant effects on competition 
"'•thin the underwriting industry. 

: 1459 
-5-
In adding credit life underwriting to the list of permissible 
activities for bank holding companies, the Board stated that, "To assure 
that engaging in the underwriting of credit life and credit accident and 
health insurance can reasonably be expected to be in the public interest, 
the Board will only approve applications in which an applicant demonstrates 
that approval will benefit the consumer or result in other public benefits. 
Normally such a showing would be made by a projected reduction in rates or 
increase in policy benefits due to bank holding company performance of 
this service." 
(12 CFR 225.4(a)(10).) Applicant has stated that the 
proposed reinsurance subsidiary and the direct insurer which issues the 
credit life and credit accident and health insurance policies made 
available by its lending subsidiaries will reduce the rates charged for 
credit life and credit accident and health insurance by at least 10 per 
cent in Virginia and 15 per cent in North Carolina. It appears that the 
proposed rates are below those generally prevailing in the areas involved. 
It is the Board's judgment that these benefits to the public outweigh any 
Possible adverse effects of the proposed reinsurance activities. 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This deter-
mination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 225.4(c)) and to the Board's authority to require such 
modification or termination of the activities of a holding company or any 

_ 1460 
-6-
of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 30, 1973, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

1461 
Item No. 12 
4/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST JERSEY NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Atlantic City Loan 
Company 
I 
First Jersey National Corporation, Jersey City, New Jersey, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire indirectly 
through a subsidiary, Guardian Loan Company, Inc. ("Guardian"), the 
assets of Atlantic City Loan Company, Atlantic City, New Jersey ("ACL"). 
ACL engages in the activity of making small secured and unsecured in-
i[ 
stallment loans to individuals. Such activity has been determined by 
the Board to be closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 
225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 8694). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired and none have been timely received. 
Applicant controls one bank with deposits of $455.7 million 
representing about 2.5 per cent of the total deposits of commercial 
. 
1/ 
°anks in New Jersey, 
Applicant's subsidiary bank does not operate in 
2/ 
the relevant market area. 
However, Applicant's nonbanking subsidiary, 
Guardian, has an office in the relevant market. Guardian is the smallest 
i' Banking data are as of June 30, 1972. 
•2/ The relevant market area is approximated by Atlantic County, plus 
h e two southernmost- municipalities of Burlington County, the four 
southernmost. municipalities and the southeastern coastal area in Ocean 
°Unty9 and the municipality of Ocean City in Cape May County. 

1462 
-2-
consumer finance company in the area with total outstandings of $0*6 
3/ 
million 0 
ACL ranks as the fourth largest consumer finance company 
4/ 
with outstandings of $0.9 million. 
Consummation of the proposal 
herein would increase Applicant's share of the small consumer install-
ment loans of finance companies and commercial banks in the market from 
an estimated 4 per cent to approximately 10 per cent. However, ACL 
has had decreasing outstandings over the past five years, and its one 
executive officer is elderly and near retirement. No successor manage-
ment has been provided. There are seven other consumer finance companies 
which will remain in the market along with 12 commercial banks that make 
small consumer installment loans. Considering the large number of lend-
ing alternatives and ACL's declining position, the Board is of the 
opinion that Applicant's acquisition of ACL would not have a significant 
adverse effect on existing or potential competition in the small con-
sumer installment loan market. 
There is no evidence in the record to indicate that consum-
p t i o n of the proposal would result in any undue concentration of re-
sources, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking 
Practices, Approval of the application, by giving ACL access to increased 
Management depth, would ensure that ACT, would continue as a viable force 
the market and would be able to maintain and expand its services. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the 
-
 
T h e relevant product line is small consumer installment loans. 
& 
Consumer finance company data are as of May 31, 1972. 

1163 
- 2 -
record, the Board has determined that consummation of the proposal 
herein can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public 
that outweigh possible adverse effects. 
The vehicle through which Applicant proposes to acquire the 
assets of ACL is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Guardian Commercial Cor-
5/ 
poration ("GCC"), 
The shares of GCC were acquired by Applicant on 
June 30, 1970, and under the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of the Act may not 
be retained beyond December 31, 1930, without Board approval. Applicant 
has not as yet filed an application to retain such shares, nor has the 
Board, in its consideration of the instant proposal, passed on the 
merits of such retention. Under these circumstances, the Board be-
lieves that it would be in the public interest to approve the acquisi-
tion of ACL on the condition that Applicant maintain the assets of ACL 
separate and apart from those of GCC, and, upon consummation of the 
acquisition, operate ACL as a separate business entity. This condition 
may be lifted at such time as the Board has an opportunity to make a 
^termination on any application subsequently filed to retain the 
shares of GCC. 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved on the con-
dition that Applicant maintain the assets of ACL separate and apart 
f rom those of GCC and operate ACL as a separate business entity. This 
^termination is further subject to the conditions as set forth in 
^ 
GCC, with total assets of $34.2 million, is engaged in the business 
granting personal loans, installment sales financing, lease financing 
^ automobiles and equipment, and reinsurance of credit life and credit 
cident and health insurance. 

•4-
1464 
§ 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and the Board's authority to require such 
modification or termination of the activities of the holding company 
or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to insure 
compliance with the conditions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
regulations and orders issued thereunder or to prevent evasion thereof* 
6/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective April 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
6/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governors 
Mitchell and Brimmer. 

1165 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 13 
4/30/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 30, 1973 
Marine Midland Western International Corporation 
237 Main Street 
Buffalo, New York 
14203 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of March 2 and 14, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("MMWIC") to 
purchase and hold all of the shares of MM Financial Limited ("MMF"), 
Toronto, Canada, at a cost of approximately C$1,000,Q00 (about 
$1,011,000) and to continue to hold the shares of MMF after MMF 
acquires 60 per cent of the shares of MM Builders Funds Limited ("MMB"), 
Toronto, Canada, at a cost of approximately C$300,000 (about $304,000), 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter* 
In this connection, approval is also granted for the direct 
or indirect purchase and holding of shares of MMF and MMB by your 
Corporation in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in the 
provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal Reserve 
Act and Section 211..9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of MMF by MMWIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That MMWIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in MMF if MMF at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if MMF establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Canada or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to MMWIC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, MMWIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of MMF as it may require from time to 
time; and 

14 66 
Marine Midland Western International Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
MMF be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regu-
lation K in the same manner as if MMF were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of 
Regulation K . 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of MMB is granted subject to the same conditions 
as set forth in the second and third paragraphs of this letter sub-
stituting MMB for MMF, 
» 
The Board also grants consent for MMWIC to continue to hold 
shares of MMF after MMF issues and has outstanding debt obligations 
with a maturity in excess of one year in an amount not to exceed 
$10,200,000. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of MMF and MMB. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

• 
OF THE 
4/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• S
^
7
. 
• 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
1167 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item Nq. 14 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 30, 1973 
Southeast Banking Corporation 
100 South Biscayne Boulevard 
Miami, Florida 
33131 
! 
Gentlemen: 
I 
As requested in your letter of October 27, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
, tion 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation ("Southeast") 
to continue to hold 50 per cent of the shares of Compass Finance S.A. 
! ("CF"), Luxembourg, at a cost of approximately $1,000,000 and to con-
tinue to hold indirectly through CF: 
(1) all of the shares of Compass 
Bank and Trust Company, Limited ("Nassau Bank"). Nassau, Bahamas; 
(2) all of the shares of Compass Finance (U.K.)* Limited, London, 
England; and (3) 40 per cent of the shares of Cofiber, S.A., Madrid, 
Spain. 
The Board also grants consent for Southeast to purchase and 
hold indirectly through CF all of the shares of Compass Bank Luxembourg 
(S.A.), Luxembourg, at a cost of approximately $2,000,000; all of the 
shares of Compass Bank and Trust Company (Cayman) Limited ("Cayman Bank"), 
Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, at a cost of approximately $500,000; and 
all of the shares of Compass Finance (U.S.) ("Compass (U.S.)"), Miami, 
Florida, at a cost of approximately $10,000, provided the shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
As subsidiaries of a bank holding company, CF and each of its 
foreign subsidiaries shall confine their activities to international or 
foreign banking and other international or foreign financial activities. 
Compass (U.S.) shall confine its activities to providing administrative 
services to foreign affiliates of CF and assisting these affiliates in 
arranging private placements with financial institutions in extensions 
of credit made abroad by members of the CF group. 
In granting this consent, it is understood that CF and its 
subsidiaries will be used for developing international business and not 
a s 
a means of shifting domestic business from offices in the United 
°totes. In particular, Nassau Bank and Cayman Bank should do no business 

Southeast Banking Corporation 
- 2 -
r _ 1 4 
W 
With U.S. residents unless such business is clearly related to a 
bona fide international or foreign business transaction. 
In addition, Southeast shall maintain at its head office 
in Miami and make available to examiners of the Board comolete in-
formation on transactions with U.S. residents by CF and its subsidi-
aries and information necessary to assess the financial condition of 
CF and its subsidiaries. 
Failure to make adequate information avail-
able to examiners shall be deemed a violation of this consent. 
It is the preliminary ruling of the Board that the restric-
tions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act 
would apply to loans by affiliated U.S. banks to the foreign bank 
subsidiaries of CF as well as to nonbanking affiliates. 
Therefore 
the above consents are granted on the condition that, until a final 
rula ng is made, crcdit extensions by Southeast's U.S. bank subsidiaries 
to any of the foreign banking affiliates of CF will conform to the 
requirements of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section 23A of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
.
 
T l
s
i e B o a r d 
a l s ° grants consent for Southeast to invest an 
additional $2,000,000 in CF provided the investment is made within 
two years from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consents are given on the condition Miat the 
investments be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
they apply to h r s t National Bank of Miami and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

I M i i i 
BDARD • F GOVERNORS 
Item No. 15 
• F T H E 
4/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D O R C S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
H O A R D 
April 30, 1973 
Northwest Bancorporatiori 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55480 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 27, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c) (13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation ("North-
west") to continue to hold 50 per cent of the shares of Compass Finance 
S.A. ("CF"), Luxembourg, at a cost of approximately $1,000,000 and 
to continue to hold indirectly through CF: (1) all of the shares of 
Compass Bank and Trust Company, Limited ("Nassau Bank"), Nassau, Bahamas; 
(2) all of the shares of Compass Finance (U.K.), Limited, London, 
England; and (3) 40 per cent of the shares of Cofiber, S.A., Madrid, 
Spain, 
The Board also grants consent for Northwest to purchase and 
hold indirectly through CF all of the shares of Compass Bank Luxembourg 
(S.A,), Luxembourg, at a cost of approximately $2,000,000; all of the 
shares of Compass Bank and Trust Company (Cayman) Limited ("Cayman 
Bank"), Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, at a cost of approximately 
$500,000; and all of the shares of Compass Finance (U.S.) ("Compass 
(U.S.)"), Miami, Florida, at a cost of approximately $10,000, provided 
the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
As subsidiaries of a bank holding company, CF and cach of 
its foreign subsidiaries shall confine their activities to international 
or foreign banking and other international or foreign financial ac-
tivities. Compass (U.S.) shall confine its activities to providing 
administrative services to foreign affiliates of CF and assisting 
these affiliates in arranging private placements with financial insti-
tutions in extensions of credit made abroad by members of the CF group. 
In granting this consent, it is understood that CF and its 
subsidiaries will be used for developing international business and 
not as a means of shifting domestic business from offices in the United 
States. In particular, Nassau Bank and Cayman Bank should do no business 

Northwest Bancorporation 
- 2 -
1170 
with U.S. residents unless such business is clearly related to a 
bona fide international or foreign business transaction. 
In addition, Northwest shall maintain at its head office 
in Minneapolis and make available to examiners of the Board complete 
information on transactions with U.S. residents by CF and its sub-
sidiar ies and information necessary to assess the financial Lj/idition 
of CF and its subsidiaries. Failure to make adequate information 
available to examiners shall be deemed a violation of this consent. 
It is the preliminary ruling of the Board that the restric-
tions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act 
would apply to loans by affiliated U.S. banks to the foreign bank 
subsidiaries of CF as well as to nonbanking affiliates. 
Therefore, 
the above consents are granted on the condition that, until a final 
ruling is made, credit extensions by Northwest's U.S. bank subsidiaries 
to any of the foreign banking affiliates of CF will conform to the 
requirements of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section 23A of the Federal Re-
serve Act. 
The Board also grants consent for Northwest to invest an 
additional $2,000,000 in CF provided the investment is made within 
t^o years from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consents are given on the condition that the 
investments be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
they apply to Northwest International Bank and its affiliates. 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1471 
Item No. 16 
4/30/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL HOLDING CORP. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Fairlane Finance Company 
First National Holding Corp., Atlanta, Georgia, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y , to acquire sub-
stantially all the assets of Fairlane Finance Co., Inc. ("Fairlane"), 
Easley, South Carolina, a company engaged in the activities of making, 
acquiring and servicing loans or other extensions of credit for per-
sonal, family or business purposes and acting as agent in the sale of 
credit life, accident and health and disability insurance in connection 
with such loans. Such activities have been determined by the Board 
to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), 3 and 9(ii)(a). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 5212). The time for filing 
comments has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls The First National Bank of Atlanta, Atlanta, 
Georgia, which has deposits of $870 million, representing approximately 
10 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in Georgia. 
Applicant's 
nonbanking subsidiaries are engaged principally in mortgage banking and 
consumer financing in the States of Georgia, Florida, Louisiana, 
Mississippi and Alabama. 

1472 
-2-
Fairlane operates as a licensed small loan lender, install-
ment sales finance company and short-term business credit lender with 
12 offices, 11 of which are located throughout South Carolina and one 
1/ 
of which is located in Statesville, North Carolina. 
As of June 30, 
1972, Fairlane held $4,7 million in small loans outstanding and 1.1 
million in sales finance loans outstanding. Applicants nonbanking 
subsidiaries are not engaged in any activities in the eight separate 
markets in North and South Carolina where Fairlane's offices are 
located and, in fact, conduct no activities in these States at the 
present time. No competition exists, therefore, between Applicant's 
finance company subsidiaries and Fairlane. The loan activities in North 
and South Carolina of Applicant's bank subsidiary are only nominal and, 
therefore, no meaningful competition exists between that bank and Fairlane. 
Applicant appears to have the resource and managerial capability 
to enter markets served by Fairlane through formation of its own con-
sumer loan companies. However, there are numerous active competitors 
in the markets served by Fairlane, including a number of consumer loan 
companies with regional or national affiliations; in addition, the 
many potential entrants and the relative ease of entry into the consumer 
finance business, diminishes any possible adverse effects that consumma-
tion of the proposed acquisition might have on potential competition. 
1/ Fairlane's assets include an insurance company which discontinued 
S i t i n g policies in 1968. Applicant is seeking approval herein to 
a cquire only the consumer finance activities of Fairlane and not that 
company's insurance subsidiary. 

-3-
1473 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would have no significant adverse effects 011 existing or potential com-
petition in any relevant area. 
It is anticipated that Fairlane's affiliation with Applicant, 
by providing access to the greater financial resources of Applicant, 
will enable Fairlane to compete more effectively with other consumer 
finance lenders in the areas in which it operates. There is no evidence 
in the record indicating that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, 
conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices or other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board Is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. 
This 
determination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) 
of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modifica-
tion or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of 
its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 30, 1973. 
(Signed) 
Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
TSEAL] 
if Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

* 
.' , (.ovv ' * 
i t l i i f e 
•.f^i.v.tn • 
: 
V- 
i: 
1474 
i Si - i. , 
t M W'i -
For immediate release 
Item No. 17 
4/30/73 
May 3, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
proposed an amendment to its Truth in Lending Regulation Z that would 
require a creditor to disclose whether his instalment contract provides 
for a rebate of finance charges in the event of prepayment. 
At the same time, the Board issued an interpretation specifying 
that the method of rebate -- such as the "Rule of 7 8 V -- may be iden-
tified on a disclosure statement without including a mathematical formula 
or narrative description which might detract from the other important 
disclosures required by the regulation. While it is desirable for con-
sumers to be better informed about rebate methods, the Beard does not: 
believe that this can be accomplished by the Truth in Lending disclosure 
statement, without detriment to the broader goal of increasing consumer 
awareness of finance charges and interest rates. The Interpretation also 
specifies that the use of a rebate method in an instalment contract does 
not, involve a "prepayment penalty" of the type that must be disclosed. 
Comment on the proposed amendment should be submitted to the 
Board by June 15, Comment need not be submitted on the interpretation 
vbich is effective immediately. 
- 0 -

_ 1475 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR PART 226] 
[Reg. Z] 
TRUTH IN LENDING 
"i 
Credit Other Than Open End-Specific Disclosures 
1. Pursuant to the authority contained in the Truth in 
Lending Act (15 U.S.C. § 1601 et seq.), the Board of Governors proposes 
to amend Part 226 (Regulation Z). The proposed amendment would require 
creditors to disclose to customers, in advance of their becoming obli-
gated on a credit contract, if the contract docs not provide for rebates 
of finance charges upon prepayment of the obligation. The amendment is 
proposed in thl wanner and for the reasons set forth below: 
A-aend i; 220.8(b)(7) to read ao follows: 
§ 2^6.0—CREDIT OTHER THAN OPEN END-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(b) 
Pisclosures i n . ^ l e jgnd I i q n s a ^ i ^ M L ^ - * * 
(7) 
Identification of the method of computing any unearned 
portion of the finance charge in the event of prepayment of an obli-
gation which includes precomputed finance charges and a statement of 
the amount cr method of computation of any charge that may be deducted 
from the amount of any rebate of such unearned finance charge that will 
be credited to the obligation or refunded to the customer. 
If the 
credit contract does not provide for any rebate of finance charges upon 
prepayment, this fact shall be disclosed. 

1476 
- 2 -
2, 
The proposed amendment would add a requirement to 
§ 226.8(b)(7) regarding rebates on contracts with preccmputcd finance 
charges to the effect that "if the credit contract does not provide 
for any rebate of finance charges upon prepayment, this fact shall 
be disclosed," 
Presently creditors are required to make a disclosure 
regarding finance charge rebates only in the event that rebates are 
made. The proposal would require creditors whose contracts do not 
call for rebates to disclose this fact to their customers. 
The pro-
vision has been amended to also clarify its application only to obli-
gations which include precomputed finance charges. 
3. Should the. Board adopt the proposed amendment after 
considering the comments received on it, an effective date would be 
set far enough in advance to allow for the orderly change of forms 
where necessary. 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) 
of Title 5 United States Code, and § 262.2(a) of the Rules of Procedure 
of the Beard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 
To aid in the consideration of these matters by the Board, 
interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
arguments. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
Secretary, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 
20.551, or to any Federal Reserve Bank for transmittal 
to the Board, to be received at the Board not later than June 15, 1973. 
Such material will be made available for inspection and copying upon 

; 1477 
-3-
request, except as provided in § 261.6 (a) of the Board's Rules 
Regarding Availability of Information. 
By order of the Board of Governors,- April 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL]' 

1478 
TITLE 12 — BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER 11--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Reg. Z) 
- 
^ 
PART 226 —TRUTH IN LENDING 
Refund of unearned finance charge; prepayment penalty 
S 226 . 818 Re^uij^^o^^jarTG^ 
— J ? _ e n a l t v . 
(a) Under § 226.8(b)(7) a creditor must provide an identi-
fication of the method of computing any unearned portion of the finance 
charge in the event of prepayment of an obligation, as well as a 
statement of the amount or method of computation of any charge that 
may be deducted from the amount of any rebate. Section 226.8(b)(6) 
requires the creditor to provide "a description of any penalty charge 
that may be imposed by the creditor cr his assignee for prepayment 
of the principal of the obligation. . ." A question arises whether 
the. computation of certain rebates of unearned finance charges on 
contracts with precomputed finance charges involves a "prepayment 
penalty." A second question concerns the disclosures required to 
identify the method of computing any finance charge rebate. 
(b) Section 226.8(b)(6) relates only to charges assessed 
in connection with obligations which do not involve precomputed 
finance charges included in the obligation. 
It applies to t r a n s a c t i o n s 
in which the finance charge is computed from time to time by application 
of a rate 
to the unpaid principal balance. Prepayment penalties 
which require disclosure under this section (which principally arise 
in c o n n e c t i o n with p r e p a y m e n t , o i real , s t a t e mortgages) occur when t h e 

1479 
- 2 -
obligor in such a transaction is required to pay separately an 
additional amount for paying all or part of the obligation before 
maturity. On the other hand, § 226.8(b)(7) is designed to encompass 
the disclosures necessary with regard to the prepayment of an 
obligation involving ^recomputed finance charges which are included 
in the face amount of the obligation. Therefore, although in a 
precomputed 
obligation the finance charge rebate to a customer may 
be less when calculated according to the "Rule of 78
fs," "sum of 
the digits," or other method than if calculated by the actuarial 
method, such difference does not constitute a penalty charge for 
prepayment that must be described pursuant to § 226.8(b)(6). 
(c) Section 226.8(b)(7) requires "identification" of the 
rebate method used on precomputed contracts. Many State statutes 
provide for rebates of unearned finance charges under methods.known 
cc the "Rule of 78 V 
or "sum of t he digits" or other methods. In. 
view of the fact that; such statutory provisions involve complex 
mathematical descriptions which generally cannot be condensed into 
simple accurate statements, and which if repeated at length on 
disclosure forms could detract from other important disclosures, the 
requirement of rebate "identification" is satisfied simply fcy 
reference by name to the "Rule of 78's" or other method, as applicable. 
(Interprets nnd applies 15 IJ.S.C. 1638 and 15 U.S.C. 1039) 
By order of the Kontd of fiovutnors, April 30, 1973. 
(Signqd) Tynan. Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
[ S E A L ] 
