MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 10, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 10, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 1/ 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary-
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics I f 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 2/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
Placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed legislative developments of interest 
t o the System, after which staff members who had attended the meeting 
°nly for the economic review withdrew. 
Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 
U 
Other o f f i c e r s and s t a f f of the Division also were present. 

35 7A 
9/10/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of First Pennsylvania Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, (1) to 
make an additional investment in F.I.B.I. Holding Company Limited, Tel 
Aviv, Israel, and (2) to continue to hold shares of F.I.B.I. after it 
has acquired indirectly shares of Israel Industrial Bank, also of Tel 
Aviv, and its subsidiaries. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Wyoming Bancorpo-
ration, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to acquire directly shares of Security Bankshares, 
Inc., Casper, Wyoming, and thereby to acquire indirectly shares of Security 
Bank and Trust Company, also of Casper. With the understanding that 
changes would be made in a draft that had been prepared, the Board authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
NOW accounts. On September 15, 19 73, a new Federal law (Public 
Law 93-100) was to become effective permitting all depositary institutions 
in Massachusetts and New Hampshire to offer interest-bearing accounts 
from which a depositor may make transfers of funds by negotiable orders 
°f withdrawal (NOW's). Acting within their understanding of the intent 
of 
Congress in passing such legislation, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and the Board of Governors 
were endeavoring to establish uniform procedures with respect to the 
administration of these NOW accounts for all depositary institutions 
concerned. 

3r o o 
9/10/73 
-3-
Today's discussion explored several ways in which the Board 
might regulate the use of NOW accounts by member banks in Massachusetts 
and New Hampshire, with Governor Mitchell advising on the respective 
positions tentatively taken on these issues by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. Such issues 
included whether to treat NOW accounts as a form of savings deposit; 
the maximum interest rate to be permitted on NOW accounts; possible 
residence requirements for holders of NOW accounts to assure that the 
offering of such accounts remains a regional experiment; the need for 
imposing mandatory service charges or item limitations on the use of 
such accounts to differentiate them from ordinary demand deposits; and 
the terms under which the Federal Reserve System would permit thrift 
institutions offering NOW accounts to use the Federal Reserve collection 
system to clear NOW account items, including the possibility of requiring 
nonmember thrift institutions to maintain, as a condition for such 
clearing privileges, a clearing balance with the Federal Reserve of 
3 per cent of their total NOW account funds. 
Governor Bucher withdrew from the meeting during the course of 
the foregoing discussion. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that 
consultation would continue with representatives of the other regulatory 
agencies concerned with a view to publishing for comment later this week 

r o o 
9/10/73 
-4-
a statement of the Board's proposed 
use of NOW accounts by member banks 
The meeting then adjourned. 
position on the regulation of the 
in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. 

H 
m m - -
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• f-'the 
Item No. 1 
E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
9/10/73 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
ADDRESS DTHCIAL CORKESPDN'JCNCE 
TO THE COAKD 
' September 10, 1973 
First Pennsylvania Corporation 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19102 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 3, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y for your Corporation 
to (1) invest an additional $1.6 million in shares of F.I.B.I. 
Holding Company Limited ("F1BI"), Tel Aviv, Israel, provided the 
additional investment is made within one year of the date of this 
l e t t e r ; and (?.) acquire indirectly through F. I.B.I all of the 
shares of Israel Industrial Ban?-. ("Industrial"), Tel Aviv, 
Israel, and its subsidiaries, Financial Company of Israel 
Industrial, Ltd, the Nominees Company of Israel Industrial Bank, 
Ltd., The Trust Company of Israel Industrial Bank, Ltd., Israel 
Industries Insurance Agency, Central Severance Compensation Fund, 
and Central Provident Fund. 
As subsidiaries of a bank holding company Industrial and 
its subsidiaries shall confine their activities to international 
or foreign banking and other international or foreign financial 
operations. In this regard, the insurance agency activities cf 
Israel Industries Insurance Agency shall continue to be of the type 
Permitted under Section 225.4(a)(9) of Regulation Y. 
The foregoing consents are given on the condition that the 
investments will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company 
and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3 5 2 5 
Item No. 2 
9/10/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WYOMING BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Wyoming Bancorporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, a bank holding 
c°ropany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f o r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
tn 
acquire indirectly at least 75 per cent of the voting shares of 
Security Bank and Trust Company, Casper, Wyoming ("Bank"), through the 
direct acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the voting shares of 
o 
ecurity Bankshares, Inc., Casper, Wyoming ("Corporation"). Corporation 
° W n s 95 per cent of the voting shares of Bank and no other assets except 
e land on which Bank's building is located. The proposed acquisition 
Corporation is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the 
Shares of Bank. 
I 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
pGrsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
Xight of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
Applicant controls 12 banks with aggregate deposits of $160 
^ U i o n , representing 14.4 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
<L 
by Wyoming banks and is the largest banking organization in the 
ate- 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect acqui-
Sitions and formations approved through August 31, 1973.) The acquisition 

3526 
—9 — 
Bank ($17 million deposits) would increase Applicant's share of State 
^Posits by 1.6 percentage points. 
Applicant is the largest and only Wyoming based bank holding 
Ccm*pany, However, the second and third largest bank holding companies 
°Perating i n Wyoming are based in California and Utah, with total deposits of 
DHlion and $1.3 billion, respectively. The five largest banking 
in Wyoming control 18 banks and 45 per cent of total State 
eP°sits. The concentration of deposits within the State is viewed as 
irately high considering the small number of banks (71) presently in 
pGration. Only three Wyoming banks hold deposits in excess of $40 million, 
0 
which are subsidiaries of multi-bank holding companies. 
Bank, the third largest of five banks located in the City of 
Casper 
1> controls approximately 7 per cent of commercial deposits in the 
a t t° U a County market. The two largest banks in the market hold deposits 
of 
million and $97 million, respectively, and together control approx-
ately 37 p G r c e n t q£ market deposits. Consummation of this proposal 
represent Applicant's initial entry into the Natrona County market. 
Applicant's nearest subsidiaries to Bank are located 106 miles 
^d 97 . _ 
wiles from Casper. There is no significant present competition between 
any 
Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank. Although Applicant could enter 
the a r Ga die novo (and indeed, has already applied for such a charter) or 
°u8h the acquisition of a smaller bank, the proposed acquisition would 
aPpear t o have no net anticompetitive effect on area banking in view of the 

O J ^ / 
-3-
^resence of the two significantly larger banking organizations in the 
o n a County market. Consummation of the proposal will undoubtedly 
nhanee Bank's ability to compete in the market area, as well as assist 
t 0 W a r d S o m e deconcentration of banking resources in this highly concen-
trat^d market. The Board concludes that the competitive effects of the 
Pr°Posal are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks 
°nsidered to be satisfactory, and their managements are deemed capable. 
Th^se 
m e factors are also satisfactory with regard to Bank especially 
in vipv 
c 
o t Applicant s commitment to increase Bank's capital accounts. 
Hankie factors are therefore deemed consistent with approval of the 
cation. The record indicates that the major banking needs of the 
r e being served at the present time. However, the proposed affilia-
tion v/o i A 
uid enable Bank to compete for larger loans, become more active 
in tke 
agricultural loan market, and expand its trust services. Accord-
ingly > considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the area 
insistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's 
iucigme n t that consummation of the proposed transaction would be in the 
Publi 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the tea* ° n s summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
bef„ 
r e the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
t h t s OrH 
a er or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 

-4-
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or b y the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,—^ effective September 11, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Sh V o t i n S for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
eehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
