MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 26, 1973 

_ 1364 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, April 26, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the 
General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cations of First Amtenn Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, to acquire 
shares of the successors by merger to (1) Volunteer-State Bank, 
Knoxville, Tennessee; and (2) Farmers-Peoples Bank, Milan, Tennessee. 

$: 1365 
4/26/73 
-2-
Issuance of an order reflecting approval with respect to Farmers-Peoples 
Bank was authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 1, It was under-
stood that an order reflecting approval of the Volunteer-State Bank 
application would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Texas 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of (1) 
Kingwood Commerce Bank, N.A. , Houston, Texas, a proposed new bank; and 
(2) Inwood Commerce Bank, N.A., Houston, Texas, a proposed new bank. 
Issuance of an order reflecting that decision was authorized. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved letters to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta authorizing increases in the manpower ceiling for the 
Sixth District in connection with the District's regional check clearing 
requirements. Copies of the letters are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta approving the expansion of the Nashville regional 
check clearing area. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta approving the expansion of the Birmingham regional 
check clearing area. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
£ank of St. Louis approving the expansion of the Louisville regional 
check clearing area. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 7. 

: 136( 
4/26/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
Security National Corporation, Beaumont, Texas, to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to Bank of Lancaster, Lancaster, Texas, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Tennessee 
Valley Bancorp, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee, to acquire shares of 
the successors by merger to (1) The First National Bank of Greeneville, 
Greeneville, Tennessee; and (2) Citizens Bank, Elizabethton, Tennessee. 
Issuance of orders reflecting those decisions was authorized. Copies 
are attached as Items 9 and 10. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval, 
on April 19, 1973, of the application of Orbanco, Inc., Portland, Oregon 
to acquire indirectly shares of Far West Securities Co., Spokane, 
Washington. A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 11, along 
with the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Applications by Western Bancorporation subsidiaries. First 
National Bank of Oregon, Portland, Oregon, and Pacific National Bank 
o f Washington, Seattle, Washington, had filed applications to establish 
Edge corporations in Portland and Seattle, respectively. These two 
Kdge corporations and a third Edge corporation previously established 
by United California Bank, Los Angeles, California, had applied to 

1367 
4/26/73 
• 
-4-
invest in a merchant bank to be formed in Hong Kong. In a memorandum 
dated April 3, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
recommended approval of the two proposed Edge corporations and stated 
that it saw no issue regarding competition resulting from ownership 
by the three banks of the proposed Hong Kong bank. 
During discussion, general support was indicated for approval 
of the applications, on the understanding that a memorandum would 
be prepared by the Division of Supervision and Regulation reviewing 
the changes in administrative and audit controls adopted by United 
California Bank in the aftermath of the closing of that bank's Swiss 
subsidiary in September 1970. 
The Board thereupon unanimously approved the applications. 
Copies of the letters sent to the applicants are attached as Items 12-14. 
Bankers Trust New York Corporation. Bankers Trust New York 
Corporation, New York, New York, had proposed to engage de novo in 
certain investment advisory activities through a wholly-owned corpo-
ration, B T Investment Managers, Inc., Palm Beach, Florida. The Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York had received communications from several 
sources in Florida protesting the proposed transaction. In addition, 
the Florida legislature had enacted a bill which would prohibit the 
control by a non-Florida company of a corporation that furnishes 
investment advisory services in Florida. Several of the protestants 
had also requested that a hearing be held before Bankers Trust was 

13 GH 
4/26/73 
-5-
permitted to proceed with the proposed acquisition. In a memorandum 
dated April 19, 1973, the Legal Division recommended denial of the 
proposal on the ground that its consummation is prohibited by Florida 
law. The Division also recommended denial of the requested hearing. 
The Board unanimously denied the application and the request 
for hearing. Issuance of an order reflecting that decision was 
authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 15. 
New England Merchants Company. In a memorandum dated March 29, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended denial of the application of New England Merchants 
Company, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of Hancock 
Bank and Trust Company, Quincy, Massachusetts. 
After discussion, it was agreed that the case would be deferred 
in order that individual Board members could study the matter further. 
First Security Corporation. In a memorandum dated April 16, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval, 
while the Banking Markets Section recommended denial, of the application 
o f First Security Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, to acquire shares 
o f First Security Bank of Logan, National Association, Logan, Utah, a 
Proposed new bank. 
After discussion, the Board approved the application, Governor 
Robertson dissenting. It was understood that an order reflecting that 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration and that a 
dissenting statement would also be prepared. 

1369 
4/26/73 
• 
-4-
American Fletcher Corporation. In a memorandum dated April 13, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking 
Markets Section recommended approval of the application of American 
Fletcher Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana, to acquire the accounts 
receivable and all operating assets of the following subsidiaries of 
Economy Finance Corporation, also of Indianapolis: 
(1) Shoppers Charge 
Service, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota; (2) Shoppers Charge Service, 
inc., St. Louis, Missouri; (3) Shoppers Charge Service, Inc., Cincin-
nati, Ohio; (4) Houston Shoppers Charge Service, Houston, Texas; and 
(5) Shoppers Charge Service (inclusive of Custom Services Division) 
°f Indianapolis Morris Plan Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the application, 
with the understanding that an order reflecting that decision would be 
Prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Grandfather rights (Whitney Holding Corporation). In a memo-
randum dated November 20, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation and the Banking Markets Section recommended that no termination 
should be required of the indefinitely grandfathered activities of 
Whitney Holding Corporation, New Orleans, Louisiana. The Legal Divi-
sion, in a memorandum dated April 10, 1973, recommended that the 
°°ard find 
that the corporation was not entitled to grandfather priv-
ileges under the Bank Holding Company Act. 

5.. 1370 
4/26/73 
-7-
After discussion, the Board authorized issuance of a determi-
nation that Whitney Holding Corporation was not entitled to grandfather 
privileges. A copy of the determination is attached as Item No. 16. 
Virginia National Bankshares. In a memorandum dated April 23, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of Virginia National 
Bankshares, Inc., Norfolk, Virginia, to acquire Atlantic Credit Corpo-
ration, the successor by reorganization to Atlantic Discount Corpo-
ration, Elizabeth City, North Carolina. The recommendation of approval 
was conditioned upon the sale by applicant of Atlantic's subsidiary 
in Suffolk, Virginia. The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond had recom-
mended unconditional approval in this case. 
After discussion, the Board approved the application subject 
to the condition recommended by the staff, Governors Daane and Sheehan 
dissenting. Governor Daane stated, however, that he intended to request 
reconsideration of this application at the next Board meeting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
(Note: On April 25, 1973, the White House announced that the 
President had accepted Governor Robertson's resignation as a member and 
Vice Chairman of the Board, effective April 30, 1973. Attached under 
•^gSL-No. 17 are copies of Governor Robertson's letter of resignation 
and the President's letter accepting the resignation.) 

. 1371 
Item No. 1 
4/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST A!!TENN CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Amtenn Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, a bank 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of 
th<a Act (12 U.S.C. 1842 (a)(3)), to acquire the successor by 
Merger to Farmers-Peoples Bank, Milan, Tennessee ("Bank"). 
The 
i n t o which Bank is to be merged has no significance, except 
a s a means to facilitate the acquisition of voting shares of 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition is treated herein 
a s the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
lnterested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. 
The time for filing comments 
an(i views has expired, and none have been timely received. 
The 
Bo 
a r3 has considered the application in light of the factors set 
f°rth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls three banks, with deposits of 
$737 
Million, representing about 8 per cent of deposits in 
0mmercial banks in Tennessee.!/ 
Acquisition of Bank (deposits 
*5 million) would not result in a significant increase in 
the 
concentration of banking resources in Tennessee. 
" ^ ^ ^ E a n k i n g data are as of June 30, 1972. 

- 8 -
_ 1372 
Bank is the third largest of 12 banks located in the 
^kson banking market, and controls about 15 per cent of the 
deposits in that market. 2/ Applicant's closest banking 
Sliksidiary is approximately 45 miles distant, and there is 
n° significant existing competition between it or any other 
anking subsidiary of Applicant and Bank. Nor is there a 
r<5ciSonable probability of substantial future competition developing 
6tween Applicant and Dank, due to Tennessee's restrictive 
anching laws and the relative unattractiveness of Gibson 
Cou nty for de novo entry, as measured by population and deposits 
ing office ratios compared to the Statewide averages. 
P e r banki 
basis of the record before it the Board concludes that 
mPstitive considerations relating to the proposed acquisition 
consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f A s m • 
J^PHcant, its subsidiary banks and Ban!: are generally 
•^ctory, particularly in light of Applicant's commitment 
lnQ£ease the capital of Bank. Considerations relating to 
convenience and needs of the community to be served are 
e n t with approval of the application. 
It is the Eoard's 
n t that the proposed acquisition is in the public interest 
a t the application should be approved. 
1/ 
; 
e Gibson banking market is approximated by Gibson County. 

_ 1373 
- 3 -
On the basis of the record the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day follovzing 
the effective calendar day of this Order, or (b) later than 
three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Serve Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective April 26, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tsEAL] 
voting for~this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
r Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
irinan Burns and Governor iiitchell. 

: i375r 
Item No. 
3 
4/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied in separate applications for the Board's approval under 
§ 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent 
o f the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of Inwood 
Commerce Bank, N.A. ("Inwood Bank") and 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of Kingwood Commerce Bank, N.A. 
( Kingwood Bank"), proposed new banks both located in Houston, Texas. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) o f t h e A c t^ 
t i m e f o r f^ing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
Ught of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 12 banks located in Houston, Beaumont, San 
n£el0, Lubbuck and Odessa, Texas, with aggregate deposits of approximately 
Million, representing 5.0 per cent of total deposits of commercial 
bating -t 
l n the State. Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization 
^xas, is the second largest banking organization in the Houston 
Gklng market with seven subsidiary banks controlling approximately 
I6.5 per cent of deposits of commercial banks in that market. In addition, 

1375 
-2-
Applicant holds interests of less than 25 per cent in three suburban 
banks located in the Houston area. These three banks hold aggregate 
^Posits 
of approximately $80 million, representing 1.1 per cent of 
the total deposits of commercial banks in the Houston area. (All 
banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through March 10, 1973.) Acquisi-
tion of Inwood and Kingwood banks, will have no immediate affect on 
applicant's share of deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
Inwood Bank is proposed to be located in northwest Houston, 
immediately adjacent to the Houston City limits, approximately 20 miles 
n°rthwest of Applicant's lead bank in downtovm Houston. Applicant's 
tw° subsidiary banks located closest to the proposed site of Inwood 
Bank are approximately 11 miles east and 11 miles northeast, respectively, 
ft 
° m that bank's proposed location. 
Kingwood Bank is proposed to be located in northwest Harris 
c°unty i n t h e n n e w t o w n» community of Kingwood, approximately 22 miles 
n°rtheast of downtown Houston. Applicant's subsidiary bank located 
Cl rs 
°sest to the proposed site of Kingwood Bank is located approximately 
2 0 miles southeast of that bank's proposed location. 
Both Inwood and Kingwood banks are proposed new banks and, 
the 
erefore, no existing competition between these banks and any of Appli-
Caut's subsidiary banks would be eliminated as a result of consummation 

_ 137(> 
- 3 -
the proposals herein. Applicant's share of banking resources in the 
Houston area would not be increased as a result of consummation of the 
Proposed acquisitions. Expansion cte novo by Applicant into the suburban 
®arkets of Houston to be served by these proposed new banks should 
elitninate neither meaningful future competition among commercial banks 
n°r have any significant effect on the future concentration of bank 
^sources in the Houston area. The areas to be served by Applicant 
through Inwood and Kingwood banks are undergoing large scale develop-
and will in the near future include numerous commercial facilities 
anc* residential developments. De novo entry by Applicant into these 
areas will provide additional banking alternatives and should stimulate 
°mPetition among those financial institutions already located in these 
reas. With respect to the Kingwood area, operation of Kingwood Bank 
Will „ 
provide a needed more convenient source of banking services to 
esidents of the Kingwood and Forest Grove communities. In view of the 
aPidly growing character of the areas proposed to be served by Inwood 
nc* Kingwood banks, prospects appear favorable for entry by additional 
nktng organizations into these areas and Applicant's entry de novo 
not serve to foreclose the opportunity for entry in these areas 
other banking organizations. The Board concludes that consummation 
of t, 
a e Proposals herein will not have an adverse effect on competition 
In a n 
n y relevant area and may, in fact, serve to stimulate competition 
ltl thf. areas proposed to be served. 

_ 
1377 
- 8 -
The financial and managerial tesources of Applicant and its 
subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactory and prospects for the 
Sroup appear favorable. Inwood and Kingwood banks have no financial 
°r operating history. However, as subsidiaries of Applicant, their 
Prospects appear favorable. Banking factors are consistent with 
approval of these applications. The expected rapid growth of the 
area3 in which Inwood and Kingwood banks are to be located indicates 
the need for additional banking alternatives. At the present time, 
residents of the Kingwood community must travel approximately four 
miles south to the nearest bank. Establishment of both Inwood and 
Kingwood banks will provide residents in their respective communities a 
c°nvani3nt source of a wide variety of banking services offered through 
Applicant. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
residents of the areas proposed to be served by Inwood and Kingwood 
banks are consistent with approval of these applications. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisitions would 
oe in 
the public interest and that the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
f o r the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be con-
SUmmated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and 
^ 
Inwood Commerce Bank, N.A. and Kingwood Commerce Bank, N.A., both 
o f Houston, Texas, shall be opened for business not later than six 

_ 1378 
- 8 -
m°nths after the effective date of this Order. Each of the periods 
^scribed in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
t h i s action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
Gov!!tIler, Slieehan, and Bucher. 
Ver*or Mitchell. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 

: i375r 
•^ofjo;-. 
A • • 
•I \ V> 
S l r t i M : 
• . V R ^ - V 
B O A R D 
o f 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
4/26/73 
A D D R E S S OFnciAL CORRESPONDENCE 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 26, 1973 
"Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 30303 
Bear President Kimbrel: 
cor, 
• T h i S i s l n res"P°nse to Mr. Possum's letter of April 17 
S ^ r S s t r i c t f 1 W i n g 
f 0 r i n c r e a s e d 
- P — l n
1 ^
7 
Atlanta, Check Collection/RCPC -- 27 positions 
New Orleans, RCPC 
__ 4 
f. 
Birmingham, RCPC 
- - 7 
" 
Nashville, RCPC 
__ g 
>i 
Total 
46 
^ u have J ! ^ 
UK d C r S"° 0 d t h a t i n connection with these requests 
•spend?, 
? 
7 
^ 
i n f o m e d 
t h a t ^ e associated increases in 
f-naiture Limits cannot be authorized at this time. 
this is t o l n ^ ° r d 0 r J ^ S y° U ^ 
P r ° C G e d W i t h t h e rea-uire<^ expansions, 
positions^ 
y° U r r e v i s e d m a^ower ceiling now totals 
Sincerely, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretarv 

B O A R D 
• 
F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No 
4/26/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 26, 1973 
Mr, Kyle K. Fossum 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 30303 
Dear Mr. F< ossum: 
h a Q 
. 
B o a r d s Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Computers 
l a t i " V 1 f e d y° u r r f ^ c s t ^ r authorization to proceed with instal-
! 
l 0 n ° f a B u r r o u 8 h s 275 computer at the Nashville office. In a 
a L r n r 
. ? r e® i d e n t Kimbrel, dated April. 17, the Committee has 
^proved the hardware installation. 
and a h n r f J ^ 
a l S ° r e q u e s t s increased manpower (15 positions) 
a budget increase amounting to $7,696 in the first half of 1973. 
s i m i W 
W ! 
i C f ° d i n P r G v i o u s correspondence concerning 
the 
the Board is not disposed at this time to alter 
the 
U m i t S s e t i n January. While the Board has approved 
that 
r " : a c r e a s e >'ou requested, the Board continues to believe 
b e ' e r e x : , t , n ? circumstances, such essential expansions should 
y r e a I l o c a t i n S resources freed from areas and activities 
j-t^ser priority. 
ni; 
We are aware that the balancing of priorities for a number 
u niainy - 
• 
" 
r 
i. -Lv- o O-WJ. CI UUUILM 
your m n n 
8 r a m s lr n ° C a s y t a s k> b u t f c e l c o n fi dent that you and 
- management staff can achieve this result. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary 

_ 1381 
BDARD DF GDVERN•RS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
4/26/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 26, 1973 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
The Board approves the proposal by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta to expand the Nashville regional 
check clearing area. In addition, the employment ceiling 
for the Sixth District is increased by 15 positions to 
allow for staffing as requested. 
The Board requests that any and all appropriate 
expenditures be included in the Second Half 1973 Budget 
for the Sixth District which will be considered by the 
Board in total. At present, total expenditures remain 
limited by the budget ceiling approved by the Board in 
its letter dated January 26, 1973. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary 

1382 
BDARD OF GDVERN•R5 
• F T H E 
I T E M 
N ° - 
6 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4/26/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 26, 1973 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30303 
De ar Mr. Kimbr e I: 
The Board approves the proposal by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta to expand the Birmingham regional 
check clearing area. In addition, the employment ceiling 
for the Sixth District 
is increased by 14 positions to 
allow for staffing as requested. 
The Board requests that any and all appropriate 
expenditures be included in the Second Half 1973 Budget 
for the Sixth District which will be considered by the 
Board in total. At present, total expenditures remain 
limited by the budget ceiling approved by the Board in 
its letter dated January 26, 1973. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B, Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary 

OF COWT•. 
m m : 
_ 1383 
BOARD OF 
GDVERNDRG 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
4/26/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 26, 1973 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President' 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
Hie Board of Governors approves the proposal 
to expand the Louisville regional clearing territory to 
the remainder of western Kentucky with an accompanying 
increase in the present employment ceiling of 8 posi-
tions. 
It is understood that four additional employees 
will be added during the present budget period, three 
more during the second half budget period, and one during 
the first half 1974 budget period. 
Ihe Board further understands that expenses 
associated with the approved expansion will be included 
within the budget ceiling contained in the letter from 
the Board dated January 26, 1973. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary 

_ 1384 
Item No. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/26/73 
;ji 
J.,. 
FIRS? SECutlm NAtiotjAL CORPORATION 
. <j • 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Security National Corporation, Beaumont, Texas, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board»s approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors1 
qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger to Bank of Lancaster, 
Lancaster, Texas ("Lancaster Bank"). The bank into which Lancaster Bank 
to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the 
acquisition of shares of Lancaster Bank, Accordingly, the proposed ac-
quisition of shares of the successor organization is treated herein as 
t h e Proposed acquisition of the shares of Lancaster Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d n o n e has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
in light; o£ th* factors set form in S 3(c) o£ th© Act (12 U„S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls five banks with aggregate deposits of 
$17^ 
million, representing less than 1 per cent of total deposits in 
commercial banks in Texas, and is the twelfth largest multibank holding 
company i n t h e S t a t e > 
( A 1 1 banking data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted 
rcflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
B°ard through March 31, 1973.) The acquisition of Lancaster Bank 

_ 
1385 
- 2 -
(deposits of $5 million) would increase Applicants share of State deposits 
ky less than one-tenth of a percentage point. 
Lancaster Bank is located in the Dallas banking market, where it 
controls less than 1 per cent of market deposits and ranks as the ninety-
fifth largest of the 110 market banks. At the present time, Applicant has 
n° banking interests in the Dallas market, and its closest subsidiary bank-
i n g o f f i°o is located 52 miles northwest of Lancaster. No substantial 
P r e s e n t competition exists between Applicant's subsidiaries and Lancaster 
B a nk, and in view of the distances separating the banking offices, and 
5tate laws restricting branching, it appears unlikely that significant 
COlnpetition would develop. It further appears that the proposed affilia-
tio 
n 
A p p l i c a n t would increase Lancaster Bank's ability to compete 
i 
ttle l a rge Dallas market. Competitive considerations are consistent 
With approval of the application. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, 
t s Present subsidiaries, and Lancaster Bank are satisfactory, and the 
Aspects for each appear favorable. Considerations relating to banking 
factorR are consistent with approval of the application. The banking 
e d s 
tlle Dallas area are being satisfactorily served at the present 
time 
exiating facilities. However, the proposed affiliation with 
li 
hel 
^Pplic-*~nt would enable Lancaster Bank to make larger loans, and thereby 
P it t 
co meet the area's construction and permanent mortgage require-
ments 
A 
• 
APPlicant will also assist Lancaster Bank in increasing its 
CaPital commensurate with its growth in this rapidly expanding area. 

_ 24 
-8-
Considerations relating to thfe l e n i e n c e and needs of the community to 
be served are consistent with approval of this application. It is the 
Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction would 
be in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective April 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chaiv.an ^fertson and G c J ™r s Daane., 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Buchcr, Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
and Governor Mitchell. 

: i375r 
Item No. 3 
4/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TENNESSEE VALLEY BANCORP.. INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Tennessee Valley Bancorp., Inc., Nashville, Tennessee, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
^ 2 ( a ) (3)) } t o a Cq Ui r e the successor by merger to The First National 
B a n k o f Creeneville, Greeneville, Tennessee ("Bank"), The bank into which 
is to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate 
acquisition of voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
^uisj-tion i s treated herein as a proposed acquisition of the shares 
o f Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Person 
n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(M 
' °t the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
e Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
of t, 
e factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank with deposits of $506 million 
- senting about five and one-half per cent of total deposits in com-
^r ci a ] i 
t 
y 
* °anks in Tennessee. 
Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $31.1 
mHli0nx 
' w°uld not result in a significant increase in the concentration 
bankin 
n 8 resources in Tennessee. 
fiank is the second largest of three banks located in the Greene 
Qo U n t 
anking market and controls about 41 per cent of the total deposits 
A ll baSu-ng data M O as of June 30, 1972, 

-5-* 
1388 
°f commercial banks in that market. Applicant's present banking sub-
sidiary is approximately 170 miles distant and there is no significant 
existing competition between it and Bank. Nor is there significant 
existing competition between Bank and Applicant's proposed subsidiary, 
Citizens Bank, Elizabethton, Tennessee ("Elizabethton Bank"), due to the 
distance of some 35 miles between Elizabethton Bank and Bank and 
Tennessee's restrictive branching statutes. There is also little 
Probability of substantial future competition developing between Ap-
plicant and Bank in light of the relative unattractiveness of Greene 
County for de novo entry, as measured by population and banking deposits 
Per office ratios compared to Statewide averages. On the basis of the 
record before it, the Board concludes that competitive considerations 
relating to the proposed acquisition are consistent with approval of 
t h e application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
f Applicant. its subsidiary bank, and Bank are satisfactory and con-
8;a-stent with approval of the application, particularly in view of the 
capital provided Applicant's subsidiary bank. Considerations 
^elating to the convenience and needs of the community to be served are 
also 
u consistent with approval of the application. 
It is the Board's 
Sment that the proposed acquisition is in the public interest and the 
PPlication should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
s°ns summarized above. This transaction shall not be consummated 

v:13S9 
- 3 -
(a) before the thirtieth calendar d^y Allowing the effective date of 
this Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
o r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated 
authority, 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective April 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B, Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
I SEAL] 
y 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
dimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
an<* Governor Mitchell. 

1330 
Item No. 10 
4/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TENNESSEE VALLEY BANCORP., INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Tennessee Valley Bancorp., Inc., Nashville, Tennessee, a 
** folding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
^ 
1842(a)(3)), to acquire the successor by merger to Citizens 
Bank* Ellzabethton, Tennessee ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to 
merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the ac-
tion of voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisi-
tion J 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
S° n s t o submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ v 
°f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Rn 
J -
ooard has considered the application and all comments received 
I l 8 h t o f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
Applicant controls one bank, with deposits of $506 million, 
esenting about five and one-half per cent of total deposits of com-
mercial h i 
1/ 
oanks in Tennessee. 
Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $22 million), 
aloti8 with *.u 
the acquisition of First National Bank of Greeneville, Greene-
V l U e 
T 
' ennessee ("Greeneville Bank"), by Applicant which has been granted 
b y the B 
°ard as of this date, would not result in a significant increase 
l n th* con 
noentration of banking resources in Tennessee. 
Danking data are as of June 30, 1972. 

_ 
1391 
Bank Is the smatl6lr d£ tiii l&kU located in the Carter County 
banking market and controls about 47 per cent of the total deposits in 
that market. The largest bank in the market is a subsidiary of a bank 
holding company so there is little likelihood that Applicant will be 
able to dominate the Carter County market. Applicant's closest banking 
subsidiary to Bank will be the Greeneville Bank, which is located about 
3 5 miles from Elizabethton. There is no significant existing competition 
between it or any other banking subsidiary of Applicant and Bank. Nor is 
there a reasonable probability of substantial future competition develop-
ing 
between Applicant and Bank due to Tennesseefs restrictive branching 
laws and the relative unattractiveness of Carter County for de novo entry, 
a s measured by deposits per banking office compared to the Statewide 
average and recent population growth. On the basis of the record before 
lt» the Board concludes that competitive considerations relating to the 
Proposed 
acquisition are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiary bank and Bank are satisfactory and consistent 
^ith approval of the application, particularly since, as noted in the 
°rder approving the acquisition of the Greeneville Bank, additional 
caPital is being provided Applicant's lead bank. Considerations relating 
t o the convenience and needs of the community to be served are also con-
8iatent with approval of the application. It is the Board1s judgment 
t h a t 
proposed acquisition is in the public interest and that the 
aPPlication should be approved. 

1392 
- 3 -
On the basis of the record the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
°rder> unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
Fe<*eral Reserve Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective April 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSBAL] 
j / 
1 
Bri V° t i ne 
tllis action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane: 
Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
Governor Mitchell. 

: i375r 
Item No. 
3 
4/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
IDRBANCO, Ittbi 
Order Approving Acquisition of Far West Securities Co. 
Orbanco, Inc., Portland, Oregon, a bank holding company within 
the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the Board's 
approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Regulation Y, to acquire (through its wholly owned subsidiary, Columbia 
Mortgage Co., Portland, Oregon ("Columbia")) all of the voting shares of 
par West Securities Co., Spokane, Washington ("Far West"), a company that 
engageS in mortgage banking activities. Such activities have been determined 
the Board to be closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 
225-4(a)(l)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
b°en duly published (37 Federal Register 24390). The time for filing 
C0Tnments and views has expired, and the Board has considered all commments 
received in light of the public interest factors set forth in section 4(c)(8) 
0f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)) 
Applicant, a one bank holding company, controls The Oregon Bank, 
^°rtland, Oregon ("Bank"), the third largest banking organization in Oregon 
W l t h deposits of about $164 million, representing less than 4 per cent of 
i ^ ^ ^ W e s T a l s o sells insurance directly related to extensions of credit 
banktS m o r t8 age banking activities. 
Applicant sought to acquire the mortgage 
how 
8 a c t i v i ties of Far West as well as the related insurance activities; 
r n V e r > i n light of objections to these insurance activities, Applicant 
that the Board split the application into two separate parts. 
o f p
r d i ngly, the Board's Order herein deals only with the proposed acquisition 
a p p r
a r best's mortgage banking activities. Applicant's request for Board 
0val to engage in the aforementioned insurance activities is still pending 

1394 
- 2 -
2/ 
total deposits in commercial banks in the State.- 
(The two largest 
banking organizations in Oregon together control approximately 78 per 
Cerit 
all commercial bank deposits.) Applicant, through Bank and its 
newly~established mortgage banking subsidiary, Columbia, engages in the 
S a m e line of business activity as Far West; Bank operates 23 offices throughout 
the State of Oregon while Columbia limits its mortgage activities to the 
p°ttland area. With three offices, Far West serves Spokane, Benton, and 
Franklin Counties in eastern Washington State. In 1971, Far West held 
miliion in mortgage originations in Spokane County, or almost 8 per 
C e n t o f the total mortgages originating in the County; during the first 
ei£ht months of 1972, the total amount of mortgages originated by Far 
W e s t Counted to about $10 million. As of September 30, 1972, Far West 
S e t V i c e d a mortgage loan portfolio of $31 million. 
On the basis of the facts of record, it appears that neither 
^PPlic 
ant nor Far West is a major competitor in the mortgage markets of 
Ofo 
n and Washington, respectively; that the service areas of each do not 
°Veriari 
P» and that there is no direct competition between them. Consummation 
tlle Pr°posed transaction would not eliminate any existing competition in 
r Washington or Oregon. Moreover, Applicant and Far West are not likely 
C0TnPete in the near future due to their relatively small sizes and the 
rv®ning distances. Further, it does not appear that consummation 
he*ein w°uld add significantly to the existing level of market concentration 
m an undue concentration of financial resources in any market. 
"anking data are as of June 30, 1972, unless otherwise indicated. 

1395 
i 
In analyzing the financial condition of Applicant, the Board notes 
that Applicant has incurred substantial debt in order to support the lending 
operations of its non-bank subsidiaries,- primarily those* of Northwest 
Acceptance Corporation, Portland, Oregon; "a finance" company engaged in 
CaPital goods financing. Although Applicant's overall debt, level is relatively 
high in relation to other bank holding companies, Applicant's, subsidiaries 
appear to be in Satisfactory financial condition and Applicant's earnings 
aPpear to be sufficient to service the debt. 
It is anticipated that affiliation with Applicant will provide 
Far West with access to the capital resources of Applicant, enhance its 
a bUity to provide larger mortgage loans, permit expansion of its range of 
services, and thereby enable it to compete more effectively in the com-
petitive market it serves. The Board concludes that these public benefits 
a r e a positive factor in terms of the convenience and needs of the public. 
In its consideration of Applicant's proposal, the Board has con-
sidered the question whether a covenant not to compete contained in a pro-
posed employment contract between a bank holding company and a principal 
e*ecutive and shareholder of a company (engaged in permissible activities) 
b° U t to be acquired by the bank holding company is contrary to the public 
erest standards the Board is required to consider under the Bank Holding 
°mPany Act. Historically, in the business community, covenants not to 
°mPete have represented a legitimate business requirement of parties to 
cont-y. 
acts for the purchase of a business and, after having met the general 
test of reasonableness of duration, scope, and geographic area, have been 

_ 1396 
- 8 -
Sustained by courts as legally valid and enforceable. In view of the long 
history of acceptability enjoyed by such covenants, as well as the position 
such covenants under the law, the Board finds that such covenants are 
n 0 t c°ntrary per se to the public interest. However, the Board shall examine 
the d etails of all employment contracts that come before it in connection 
w i th applications under the Bank Holding Company Act in order to determine 
n<*Gr th e facts and circumstances of each case whether a particular covenant 
Hot to 
compete is consistent with the public interest. Having reviewed the 
detaii 
c 
s of the covenants not to compete in the employment contracts involved 
in thio 
case, the Board finds that their provisions are consistent with the 
kiic interest, and the existence of such covenants does not require denial 
°f th* appi i c a t i o t K 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the 
record t-h 
> cne Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
^Ctftv 
s the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
Singly, the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
Object 
to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and 
the BoaYVJ ' 
i a s authority to require such modification or termination of 
activity 
J-cies of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 

1397 
-5-* 
finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the 
Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent 
evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
*TJ 
( 
B 
V ° t i n g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Sheehan and 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Mitchell and Brimmer 

• 
1338 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We would disapprove the application by Orbanco, Inc., to 
C q u i r e Far West Securities Company. Our decision is based on the 
xi-stence of covenants not to compete contained in the proposed 
pl°yment contracts (which would become effective upon the acqui-
°n of Far West by Orbanco) between Far West and two of its 
incipal executives and shareholders. Essentially, the contracts 
Provide f-u 
that these two individuals agree that, for what amounts to 
period of ten years, each of them will not be associated with 
Mother ™ 
mortgage firm that might be in competition with Far West. 
the agreement precludes the possibility that the individuals 
^Uestion might form a new mortgage company that would provide an 
ernative source of mortgage services and serve as an additional 
^Petit-tor to Far West. In our view, such agreements are inconsistent 
Hth t h p 
ie promotion of competition—as required under the Bank Holding 
y Act—and should not be sanctioned by the Board. 
In acting on an application by a holding company to ex-
Pand int 
to an area that is closely related to banking such as mort-
banking, the Board is directed by the Act to determine whether 
the aCq 
HUisition can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to 
the n % 
Public 
AC» such as greater convenience, increased competition, or 
i n _ 
efficiency, that outweigh any possible adverse effects. In 
0 v 
v 
*°rds, under the law, as well as under the Board's Regulation Y, 
aPpli 
Cation may not be approved unless it is in the public interest. 

_ 1399 
- 2 -
The majority has presented no evidence to show that these 
Covenants are in the public interest. On the contrary, even the title 
accorded to the agreements, "covenant not to compete", makes it un-
^stakeably clear that their primary purpose is to restrict the 
eVelopment of competition and to protect the market position that 
pPlicant is acquiring. While these covenants may be widely accepted 
the business community, and even sanctioned by some courts, such 
events are rarely, if ever, scrutinized prior to the time of 
becom-t 
ln8 effective by an agency such as the Board that has as one of 
responsibilities the promotion of competition in areas closely 
lated to banking. Given this plainly stated statutory responsibility, 
Cannot condone, nor perceive how the public interest is served by, 
aPProvi 
lnS agreements which by their very nature retard the development 
of 
Petition by restricting entry into a business by individuals 
should be free to compete if they so desire. 
Under the circumstances of this case, we conclude that, 
1 Sighing the factors the Board is required to consider under 
^c)(8) of the Act, consummation of the Applicant's proposal as 
c 
nstituted would be contrary to the public interest. For 
easons, we would deny the application. 
A P n i 26, 1 9 7 3 . 

f 
I 
_ 1400 
/<£) o] 
* <? // " 
. 
CO J..' •. 
0 •' 
,w*V«A " 
&§!! • tr 
Item No. 12 
• C A R D OF GOVERNORS 
4/26/73 
• F THE 
E D E R A L . R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2.0551 
' 
A D D R E S S 
D r r i C I A L 
C D R H E 5 P O H D E N C E 
T O T H E 
U U A R O 
May 2, 1973 
First National Bank of Oregon 
1300 8 eVJ„ Fifth Avenue 
Portland, Oregon 97208 
Gentlemen: 
t 
The Board of Governors has appro\ed the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated February 7, 1973, 
JMrst National Bank of Oregon International Corporation, Portland| 
cn, and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that 
^•orporadon to exorcise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) 
- the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organisation. 
^ 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation X. 
'e Corporation may not eyercise any of the other powers conferred 
y Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
<lU-n or D. zing it generally to commence business. Before, the Board will 
0.Ssue i t s £ i n a I permit to commence business, tin:. president, treasurer, 
l secretary, together with at lease three of the directors, must 
CO that each director is a citizen of he United States; 
by 
U m t a lraj°rit"y o f L h- sharo.s cf capital steck is held and owned 
y citiacns of the United States, by corpora tier c tlie controlling 
unlV?*! i n V h i c h i s ° W l e d b y oitizens of the. "J. ;.ted States, chartered 
c er the laws of the Unified States or of a et ite of the United States 
^ by iirias or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
str ir'eUS cf/L-hc Unif:ed States; aid (3) that of e>.e authorized caoital' 
specified in the Articles of Association -1 lea^t 
per cert 
^ s been paid [ n in cash and that each sharehol er has individually 
rft* 
^ 
C 1 S U 0 1 l e a s l : 2 3 p o r ccnt: o f h i s 
flto 
subscription. There-
l] (- treasurer or secretary shall certify to the navment of the 
f i n i n g instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with 
. T h e ^"I'Jest for a final pernit should be forwarded to the Board 
'd Lli0 Federal Heserve Bank of San Francisco* 
In accordanr e with the request, included with your application 
Porah^1^ ° n b e h a l f o f F i r s t National Bank of Oregon International Cor-
• tj.cn, ;:ac Board will, when the Corporation' 
final permit is issued , 

First National Bank of Oregon 
be disposed to grant consent for it to acquire 30 per cent of the 
stock of a new company to be formed in Hong Kong0 
Your attention is directed to the fact that First National 
bank of Oregon International Corporation will have no separate base 
under the foreign credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans 
and investments will need to be made under the ceiling of First 
National Bank of: Oregon, Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given 
cn Lite, condition that any foreign loans and investments of the Cor-
poration will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to First National Bank of Oregon and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
o r r H t 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H 1 N C T O T J , D . C . 
S 0 5 5 1 
May 2, 1973 
Pr elimlriary Permit: 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board, of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it 
°y Section 23(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this 
fIay approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated February 7, 1973, of FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF OREGON INTERNATIONAL 
CORPORATION duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that FIRST 
NATIONAL BANK OF OREGON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION is authorized to 
e>~-erclse such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with the 
Provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules -and regulations of the 
Koard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant 
thereto, 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of: the Board 

_ 1403 
.•nlr./.Vv.-rw^^,^^. 
mm 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F 
T H E 
A ' R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20S51 
Item No. 13 
4/26/73 
ADDHF.SS OFFICIAL C t ] R R F. 5 P U N O E N 
TO THE BOARD 
May 2, 1973 
Pacific National Bank of Washington 
Seattle Main Banking Center 
P« 0o Box 160 
Seattle, Washington 98111 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated February 12} 1973, 
°f Pacific Bank International, Seattle, Washington, and there is en-
closed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise 
such of the powers conferred by Section 2.5(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organization,, 
Except as provided in Section 211c3(a) of Regulation K, the 
Corporation may not exercise any of the other po /ers conferred by 
Section 25 (a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business« Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
0 r secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (l) tliat each director is a citizen of the United States; (2) 
that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned by 
citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling interest 
in which is owned by citizens of the Unit-
laws of the United States or of a State 
States, chartered under the 
a state of the United States or by firms 
0 r companies the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of 
the United States; and (3) that of the authorize-*! capital stock specified 
l n the Articles of Association at least 25 per c nt has been paid in in 
a ^ I 
1 
1 
and that each shareholder has individually i lid in in cash at least 
J P e r cent of his stock subscription* Thereaft .r, the treasurer or 
'•ecretary shall certify to the payment of the r« .a in.lug instalments as 
and wlio.n. each is paid in, in accordance with lav* The request for a 
l n al permit should be forwarded to the Beard vis the Federal Reserve 
<mk of San Francisco,. 
In accordance with the request made on behalf of Pacific 
/'n-< International, the Board will, when the Corporation's final permit 
* issued, be disposed to grant consent for it t > acquire 20 per cent 
the stock of a new company to be formed in llong Kong* 

Pacific National Bank of Washington 
-2 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Pacific 
Bank International will have no separate base, under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans and investments 
will need to be made under the ceiling of Pacific National Bank of 
Washington,, Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given on the 
condition that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation 
will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they 
apply to Pacific National Bank of Washington and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

.. 1105 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
D f T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
5 0 B S I 
May 2, 1973 
Prelimiriary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated February 12, 1973, of PACIFIC BANK INTERNATIONAL duly filed 
villi said Board oL: Governors, and that PACIFIC BANK INTERNATIONAL 
is authorized to oxerelse such of the powers conferred upon it by 
said Section 25('0 as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to commence 
business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) 
the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto* 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By (Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

_ 1406 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o • 1 4 
nr 
T
H
4
/
2
6
/
7
3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
, ADDRESS OrriCiAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
May 2, 1973 
United California Bank International 
•140 Broadway 
Mow York, Now York 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 25. 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("UCBI") 
to purchase and hold substantially all of the shares of a merchant 
bank ("HKC"), to be formed in Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately 
HK$0,500,000 (about $1,400,000), provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letterc 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of HKC by UCBI is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That UCBI shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in HKC if HKC at rviy time fails 
to restrict its activities to those, permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation c>«.v.anized under 
Section 25(a) of. the Federal Reserve ct could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors 
purchase and 
hold stock, or if HKC establishes any rraach or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Hong Kong or elsewhere, in any manner 
.vhich at the 
time would not be permissible to UCBI, if UCBI were 
not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, UCBI 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of HKC as i.t may require from Lime to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispes .tions by HKC be 
reported under Section 211..8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if HKC were a corporal' on organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve < et* 

_ 1 4 0 7 
United California Bank International 
-2-
Subject Lo continuing observation and review the Eoard 
suspends, until further n o t l e c > 
t h c p r o v l s i o n s ()f , u b p r J 
^
) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a) ' (b) 
anti 
(c) of Regulation K. 
'' 1 1' a n d 
of undorwr^tinp'^nr " q " ° S t C d C O n S e n t 
«KC to engage in the business 
s-w. 
6 
^ J n securities. The Board's consent to 
Prior ^ 
C O n d i " o n e d " P ™ 
Corporation's obtaining the 
S 
d 
' V T V " , ^ " " " - ' holding of shares of HKC 
J 
' r „ K acquire stock of individual issuers costing in excess of 
; ° 
r°r- S e n:- l n S 2 5 P° r C C n t ° f C h C v o t i l lS shares of any 
firm 
' 
' 
ln
r
 t h G c a s o o f "^rwriting operations covered by 
re e c s u b u n d e r w r i t e r s 
or other purchasers. With 
respect to trading m securities in which Corporations arc prohibited 
r T , C * 
? 
'y 
1 p r O V i S i o n s o f t h c 
-aragrapli of S e c 
ccndlt 
f 
firal 
R e s e , : v e A c t> t h e Board's consent is further 
Z t 
T 
f,U: fflCt t h a t » K C w i ] 1 acquire such shares only as 
U r ' 
" f ^ ^ f . ^ i n t a i n a size and turnover of inventory that 
> r Z ^ l \ Z ?
U
t
}
0
n 
^ d e m 3 n d ' ^ 
d l S P ° S U ° f S U C h shares within 
be rpuwi 
tl'i£' p a c t i o n , shares acquired a.: a dealer need not 
a I, Z
T 
under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, U,cy 
; = r e p o r t e d a ? a separate class, together with the da e of 
R e p o r t o f 
c r a d i t i 0 : l - 
—
- 
— 
-
bu,-,•„„.. 
you have also requested consent for HKC to engage iv thc 
Iho n l w ? 
p r o v , u l a ? consulting services outside the United States, 
so vi°c'"-'l?r e n L 1S, 8r?"t:od s u b j e t t 1 0 
condition that such 
entrv of 
° ^ 
mar.ket w U 1 bc' cor fined to the initial 
oj. toreign companies into that market. 
that 
,l,p°" C r p l 0 U 0 U o f t h c a b 0 V 0 acquisition, it is requested 
Ban "
J
I 
r oovornors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Of Asoco^r. 
' T v 
T
C O P i e S 0 f A r " X l C S 0 i Af-ociition, Memorandum 
•"^ocj.ation, and By-Lav/s of HKC. 
Invest* 
T1^'- foregoing consent is given on the condition that thc 
*s they annTv L u u * 
^ 
F ° r c i s n C r e d i t ^
^ 
Guidelines 
iey appi> to Lin 3. ted Call lorn],a Bank and its affiliates. 
Very rruly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

: i375r 
Item No. 3 
4/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORPORATION 
Order Denying Proposal to Act as an Investment Adviser 
Bankers Trust New York Corporation, New York, New York 
("BTNYC"), a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank 
hiding Company Act, has proposed under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
5 225.4(b)(1) of the Board's Regulation Y, to engage indirectly 
^ n o v o in the performance of certain investment advisory activities, 
trough B T Investment Managers, Inc., Palm Beach, Florida ("BTIM"), 
a wholly-owned subsidiary of BTNYC. 
Notice of the proposal, affording opportunity for interested 
pe*8ons to express or submit comments and views on the proposal, has 
Published (September 25, 1972, The Wall Street Journal and 
SePtember 26, 1972, West Palm Beach Commercial Record) in accordance 
V i t h § 225.4(b)(1) of the Board's Regulation Y. The time for filing 
CfVrrwv. 
^ents and views has expired, and all those received, including 
Of the Comptroller of Florida, the Florida Bankers Association, 
and th 
a e Palm Beach County Bankers Association, Inc., have been con-
V 
(-12 
in light of the factors set forth in § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
1843(c)(8))# Among tlioae letters commenting on the proposal 
requests for a hearing; those persons seeking a hearing were asked 
substantial issues of material fact, if any, were presented by 
Instant proposal and why any issues raised could not be resolved 

- 2 -
1109 
y the submission of written comments. Prior to receipt of responses 
to these questions, the Board was apprised that, on November 30, 1972, 
t h e Florida Legislature enacted legislationl/that became effective on 
Member 21, 1972. Subsequently, the Board entertained briefs and 
*ritten argument on the issue of the applicability and effect of 
the emended statute on the instant proposal from those persons that 
had requested to be heard. 
Secti 
I e 8 i s l a t i o n amended section 659.141 of the Florida Statutes. 
° n 659.141, as amended, provides, in pertinent part; 
659.141(1) Control; ownership. — 
(1) Except as provided in subsection (3) of 
this section, no bank, trust company, or holding 
company, the operations of which are principally 
conducted outside this state, shall acquire, retain, 
° r OW|i> directly or indirectly, all or substantially 
all the assets of, or control over, any bank or 
trust company having a place of business in this state 
^here the business of banking, or trust business or 
potions are conducted, or acquire, retain or own 
a U or substantially all of the assets of, or control 
° V er, any business organization having a place of 
u8iness in this state where or from which it furnishes 
^vestment advisory services in this state. However, 
a bank, trust company, or holding company directly or 
indirectly owning all or substantially all the assets of, 
or having control over, a bank or a trust company or 
usiness organization to which the restrictions and 
Prohibitions of this section apply, having acquired such 
assets or control prior to becoming disqualified here-
under, shall, on or after the effective date of this 
Section, be or become disqualified hereunder to acquire, 
r^tain or own the same, the restrictions and prohibitions 
this section shall not be enforced against it for a 
Period which, under all the circumstances, is determined 
y the department to be reasonable, not exceeding two 
years from the effective date of this act or from the 
a te it becomes disqualified hereunder, whichever is (ftn, cont'd) 

- 8 -
_ 1410 
Absent the recent enactment of amendments to section 659,141 
and any evidence indicating that de novo entry in this case would 
have the purpose or effect of foreclosing future competition or 
would otherwise be contrary to the public interest,-2/ it appears 
Ukely that the Board would have approved the instant proposal, 
^he Board recognizes, as has Congress, "that an activity commenced 
^_Qovo will tend to have pro-competitive effects, and consequently 
cont'd — 
later, unless said period of two years is extended by 
the department as herein provided. The department is 
authorized, upon a showing of undue hardship, to ex-
tend said period of two years from time to time if 
the department determines that any such extension 
would not be detrimental to the public interest, but 
any such extension shall not exceed one year and all 
thereof shall not in the aggregate exceed three years. 
* * 
* 
(2) . . . 
(c) A business organization provides investment 
advisory services if, in this state for compensation, 
it engages in the business of advising persons, as 
defined in § 1.01(3), Florida Statutes, either directly 
indirectly or through publications or writings, as 
to the value of securities or as to the advisability of 
investment in or purchasing securities, or if, not being 
a certified public accountant, in this state and for compen-
sation, it issues or distributes to persons, as defined 
i n § 1.01(3), Florida Statutes, analyses or reports con-
2/ 
cerning securities. 
Jt
 S e e the Board's Order of March 6, 1973, denying the application of 
Bq ? 
a t Orlando Corporation to acquire shares of Citrus First National 
B o
a k of Leesburg, 38 Federal Register 6317 (March 8, 1973) and the 
t 0 ^ » s Statement accompanying its Order of March 9, 1973 approving, 
to 
extent permitted by State law, the proposal of NCNB Corporation 
^ en8age in certain trust activities in South CavoHua rhrotigli American 
U a t Company, 1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin 305. 

_ 
1411 
should be viewed rhore favorably than the commencement of an activity 
through the acquisition of an existing.concern"-^ and "where a bank 
h°lding company enters a new market de novo. , ., its desire to succecd 
ici its new endeavor is more likely to be competitive 
However, 
vhile the instant proposal was pending before the Board, the Florida 
Statutes^were amended to generally prohibit the provision of invest-
ment advisory services in Florida by non-Florida-based bank holding 
Co^Panies through control of business organizations having offices 
i n Florida. The legislation further provides however that the 
restrictions and prohibitions contained therein shall not be enforced 
f0r 
a period of time ranging up to five years against any holding 
ComP*ny which, prior to the effective date of such legislation, 
aont i i 
control over a business organization to which the restrictions 
Prohibitions of the statute apply. 
There appears to be tacit agreement that the recently-enacted 
eSislation was intended to, and does, prohibit the performance of 
^stment advisory services in Florida by non-Florida bank holding " 
0tnPanies. However, BTNYC has contended that, under the "grandfather" 
Ptovision in the statute, BTIM may open for business and engage in 
Provision of investment advisory services for a period of approxi-
m a t e y two years. The protestants to the proposal, with the concurrence 
of 
e Comptroller of Florida, have contended that the "grandfather" 
c> conferred by the newly-enacted legislation,.. !s not availahle 
ITST? 
5/ h M t ^ * N o- 91-1084, 91st Cong., 2d Sess. 16 (1970). 
No. 91-1747, 91st Cong., 2d Sess. 17 (1970). 

5 
1412 
to BTNYC or BTIM, However, assuming, without deciding, that the 
construction given the "grandfather" provision by BTNYC is correct, 
t^e Board perceives, as a possible adverse effect of the instant 
Proposal, the indefinite and temporary nature of BTIM's performance 
of investment advisory services. The public is ill-served by a firm 
offoring investment advisory services that may, by law, have to be 
terminated within a relatively short time period. Customers enter-
ia§ into contracts for such services would generally do so in reliance 
uPon the continuing and long-term nature of such services. In an-
°ther sense, one may question the vigor with which an entrant into 
* Market will compete and the quality of the services it will offer, 
if i 
its employees are burdened by the realization that, irrespective 
of their performance, their duty is only temporary and the office 
ay b e closed at any time. However, in view of the disposition of 
e instant proposal on other grounds, the Board is not required to 
a t t h i g t i m e w h e t h e r t h e possibility of such an adverse effect 
ls o f sufficient weight as to outweigh the public benefits that may 
*easonably be expected to derive from the instant proposal, notably 
e increased 
competition probably resulting from de novo entry. 
In addition to the factors that the Board is, by statute, 
^ired to consider, the Board, in any particular case, must determine 
Aether the proposal would be prohibited by State law. If the proposal 
° u l d be so prohibited, the Board may not approve 
In making such 
5/ 
T y ^ i i g Z National Bank in Jefferson Parish v. Bank of New Orleans & 
379 U.S. 411 (1965). 

6 
a determination, the Board will presume the constitutional validity 
o f any pertinent State statute.-^ The interpretation and construction 
controverted State statutes is a task that is not eagerly undertaken 
b y t h e Board. Certainly, the courts of Florida are a more appropriate 
f°rum f o r t h e resolution of disputed questions of Florida law, than 
j 
s the Board. Nevertheless, the Board believes that the principle 
*aid down by the Supreme Court in the Whitney case requires the 
B°ard to initially resolve the legal issue presented here. 
The issue which is determinative of the instant proposal 
is whether the "grandfather" provision of the recently-enacted 
leSislation effectively permits BTNYC to initiate investment advisory 
Services from a Florida office, albeit for an indefinite and temporary 
Period of time. BTNYC states, and, in the absence of any evidence 
to 
the contrary, the Board finds that BTIM was incorporated in the 
State. r-
e of Delaware on November 24, 1972, at the direction of BTNYC, 
a n d that, on November 27, 1972, BTIM qualified with the Secretary of 
State 
n 
Florida to do business in Florida. However, BTNYC has not 
e£ed that BTIM, at any time, has had a place of business in Florida 
that T>T 
c "TIM has furnished investment advisory services in Florida. 
Co 1 
uld BTIM legally have done so, the prior approval of the Board 
having been secured by BTNYC. It is not contended that BTIM is 
*Uher « u , 
a bank or trust company. 
6/^- 
__ 
^PproviStatement: a c c o m P a n y i n 8 the Board's Order of March 9, 1973, 
^CNB c 
t 0 t h e e x t e n t Permitted by State law, the proposal of 
C°mPa 0 r p o r a t : i o n> Charlotte, North Carolina, to operate a trust 
^ South 
Carolina through AmerJcau Trust Company, 1973 
^Ljeserve Bulletin 305. 

7-
1114 
On the basis of these facts, BTNYC contends, and the pro-
^stants do not contend otherwise, that BTIM is a "business organiza-
tion"; that BTNYC has "control" over BTIM and had acquired that con-
trol prior to becoming disqualified under the newly-enacted legislation. 
The protestants, on the other hand, contend that, irrespective as to 
Aether BTIM is a "business organization" or whether BTNYC controlled 
bTIM prior to the effective date of the amendment, BTNYC is not entitled 
to "grandfather" benefits because BTIM did not furnish investment advisory 
Se*vices in Florida from a place of business in Florida on the effective 
o f the legislation. In the Board's opinion, the conclusion is 
in 
^capable that the "grandfather" provision of the legislation only 
aPPUe s to a bank, trust company or business organization "having a 
of business in [Florida] where or from which it furnishes invest-
erit a^visory services in [Florida]" on the effective date of the leg-
ation. Since BTIM is neither a bank or a trust company, and did 
Hot K 
a v e on that date a place of business in Florida where or from 
^ich it furnished or provided investment advisory services, the Board 
Eludes, as a matter of law, that BTNYC is not entitled to the benefits 
Of 4., 
"grandfather" provision in section 659.141. 
Furthermore, the legislative history of the legislation 
Vidences a legislative intent to exclude BTNYC from engaging in the 
Ptovi<,4 
iSron of investment advisory services in Florida from a Florida 
Qiflc 
In view of the conflicting constructions given the "grandfather" 
^sio^ the Board believes that an examination of the legislative 
st°ty of the legislation is appropriate to ascertain the legislative 
* It is beyond question, and BTNYC and the protestants are in 

_ 1415 
- 8 -
agreement, that the notice that fifed published in September, 1972, 
triggered the action of the Florida Legislature in this case and 
that the newly-enacted legislation was primarily motivated by the 
threat of BTNYC1s entry into the Florida investment advisory markets 
OnJ 
a was intended to prevent such entry. Accordingly, the Board con-
cludes that, the "grandfather" provision was not intended to permit 
t h e instant proposal, even for a limited period of time. 
BTNYC, besides contending that the Board should refrain 
f to 
construing the newly-enacted Florida legislation, contends that 
they a r e e n t i t l e d t o "grandfather" benefits because the "grandfather" 
Pr°vision, which authorizes the Florida Banking Department to deter-
mir*e the length of time during which the statute shall not be enforced 
Gainst a company entitled to "grandfather" benefits, constitutes an 
^constitutional delegation of authority to that agency. As the 
Boa*d has previously indicated, it will presume the constitutional 
*Udity of State statutes. BTNYC's challenge to the constitutionality 
ny Provision of the recently-enacted Florida legislation is properly 
Sizable only by the judiciary. In brief, since the Board is of the 
°Pini 
that the proposal is prohibited by State law, it believes that, 
utider t-K 
cne doctrine set forth by the U.S. Supreme Court In Whitney, 
it mu®t deny the proposal. 

- 9 -
The Board is not unsympathetic with BTNYC when that hold-
in8 company questions "the fairness and legality of a procedure 
hereby proponents of this legislation could prevent [its] proposal 
from becoming effective by filing objections with the Board and 
requesting a hearing and then, after hasty enactment of legislation, 
*rgue that this very legislation should be the basis for the Board 
t o bar approval of [its] proposal." There is substantial evidence 
that the celerity with which the legislation was enacted is directly 
attributable to the pendency of the instant proposal before the Board. 
Ho* 
7 / 
6ver, section 7- of the Act expressly reserves to the States the 
Authority to adopt legislation in the exercise of their powers and 
Jurisdiction with respect to banks, bank holding companies, and 
their subsidiaries, and the U.S. Supreme Court in Whitney expressly 
tn 
structed the Board to consider the applicability and effect of any 
SUch legislation. Accordingly, irrespective of any doubt the Board 
^ 
entertain as to the wisdom or desirability of a particular State 
en*ctment, the Board must, and will, respect, and act in the light 
of » Pertinent State legislative judgments. 
^ ^ t W T o f the Act provides 
The enactment by the Congress of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 shall not be construed as 
preventing any State from exercising such powers 
and jurisdiction which it now has or may hereafter 
have with respect to banks, bank holding companies, 
and subsidiaries thereof. (12 U.S.C. 1846) 

1117 
Based upon the record and for the reasons expressed herein, 
proposal of BTNYC Corporation to provide investment advisory 
services in Florida through the instrumentality of BTIM, is hereby 
denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors,—^ effective April 26, 1973, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
aane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher, Absent and not voting: 
Airman Burns and Governor Mitchell. 

: i375r
Item No. 
3 
4/26/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WHITNEY HOLDING CORPORATION 
"Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) x/ith respect to 
n°nbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amendments 
co the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding Com-
Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 1970" 
continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, in non-
inking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on June 30, 
(or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of activities 
Carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company or subsidiary, 
purauant to a binding written contract entered into on or before June 30, 
of another company engaged in such activities at the time of the 
and has been continuously engaged in since June 30, 1968 
(or 
s^ch subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
G°vemors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
^vileges if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
etGrmlnes that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentration of 
sources. decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or un— 
°Und banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a bank 
11 assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, the 
Boav-fi is required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

_ 1419 
- 2 -
Notice of the Board's proposed review of the grandfather 
Privileges of the Whitney Holding Corporation, New Orleans, Louisiana, 
a n d an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
o r request a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414). The time for 
filing comments, views, and requests has expired, and all those received 
have been considered by the Board in light of the factors set forth in 
5 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the follox^ing 
findings. Whitney Holding Corporation ("Registrant"), New Orleans, 
Louisiana, became a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a 
result of the 1970 Amendments to the Act, by virtue of Registrant's owner-
ship of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of Whitney National Bank of New Orleans ("Bank"), New Orleans, 
L°uisiana (assets of approximately §736 million, as of December 31, 1970). 
Bank> control of which was acquired by Registrant in May, 1962, had total 
dePosits of approximately $708 million as of June 30, 1972, representing 
a little less than 30 per cent of the aggregate deposits in commercial 
b a n ks located in Orleans Parish, and is the largest of nine banks located 
it*.. 
the Orleans Parish area. Bank's management, financial condition and 
Pr°spects are regarded as satisfactory, and the Board has found no evidence 
of unsound banking practices. 
It appears that Registrant does not engage directly in any 
bu 
Usiness activity other than holding stock of, or providing services to 
it<? subsidiaries. Registrant has four nonbanking subsidiaries, namely, 

: _ 1420 
-3-
Berwick Land Company, Inc. ("Berwick"), Common Street Corporation 
("Common Street"), Gravier Street Corporation ("Gravier"), and Louisiana 
Maintenance, Inc. ("Maintenance"), all of New Orleans, Louisiana. 
Berwick owns approximately 2900 acres of land, some of 
^Hich is leased to farmers for raising sugar cane. The land was 
0rt8inally acquired, on August 15, 1928, through debts previously con-
tacted by TJhitney Trust & Savings Bank and was assumed by Bank on April 26, 
J> when Whitney Trust & Savings Bank was merged into Eank. The land 
V a s shifted from Bank to Berwick on March 6, 1970. Inasmuch as Berwick 
dirt not engage in this activity on June 30, 1968, and the holding com-
pany did not engage in this activity other than through Bank, the Board 
c°ncludes that no grandfather benefits accrue to Registrant with regard 
to ft 
erwick activities. An activity engaged in directly by a bank Is regarded 
by 
a e Board as not being an activity within the meaning and intent of 
the grandfather proviso in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
Common Street and Gravier are inactive corporations and have 
n° activities entitled to grandfather privileges. 
Maintenance, which provides building maintenance services to 
°n a cost basis, became a subsidiary of Bank on March 22, 1967. 
« ,, 
w 
4 (c)(1)(C), 
the activities of Maintenance seem to be exempt 
t-v, general prohibition of S 4 against nonbanking activities. 
^withCti°n 4(c)(1)(C) of the Act enables a bank holding company to acquire 
8oiei°Ut the approval of the Board) "(1) shares of any company engaged. . . 
J in . . . (c) furnishing services to or performing services for such 
nolding company or its banking subsidiaries. . .". 

- 9 -
On the basis of the foregoing and the facts before the Board, 
it appears that Registrant is not entitled to grandfather benefits within 
the meaning of the proviso of § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
2/ 
Board of Governors, April 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
ISEAL] 
I' Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
rimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Pernor Mitchell. 

60 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
I t e m No. 17 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
4 / 2 6 / 7 3 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 5 0 5 5 1 
OFFICE OF THE VICE CHAIRMAN 
COPY 
March 29, 1973 
Dear Mr. President: 
I hereby tender my resignation as 
a member of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, effective as of 
the close of business April 30, 1973, or 
any earlier date that might better suit 
your convenience. 
Needless to say, I deeply appre-
ciate the opportunity and privilege of 
serving the public during so many differ-
ent Administrations - nearly forty-six 
years in the federal public service, over 
twenty-one years as a member of the Board 
of Governors, and a third of that period 
N as its Vice Chairman. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) J. L Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
The President 
The White House 
Washington, D. C. 

T H E W H I T E H O U S E 
WASHINGTON 
April 25, 1973 
Dear M r . Robertson: 
It is with special appreciation for your many 
contributions to the economic well-being of 
our country that I accept your resignation as 
a Member and Vice Chairman of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as 
you have requested, effective April 30, 1973. 
For more than two decades, your foresight, in-
tegrity, and banking expertise have significantly 
helped maintain and strengthen this country's 
banking system, a system which has furnished 
the capital for unparalleled national growth in 
the post-war years. 
Few men in the history of 
the " F e d " have served with such distinction and 
dedication, and on behalf of all our fellow citi-
zens, I want you to know of my lasting gratitude 
and admiration for your superb work. 
A s you prepare to leave government service, I 
welcome this occasion to extend my very best 
wishes to you and your family for every happiness 
m the years ahead. 
Honorable J. L . Robertson 
Board of Governors 
The Federal Reserve System 
"Washington, D. C. 
20551 
