MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 23, 1973 a.m. 

t > 4 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, February 23, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco on February 15, by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on February 16, and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas on 
February 22, 1973, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting approval on December 21, 1972, of the application of Northwest 

2/23/73 
-2-
Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire shares of Farmers 
and Merchants State Bank of Stillwater, Stillwater, Minnesota. Copies 
of the order and statement are attached under Item No. 1, along with 
a copy of the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Melnicoff 
withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Martin Building. After discussion of the proposed conversion 
of the first parking level of the Martin Building to office space (see 
memorandum from Governor Sheehan dated February 21, 1973), the Board 
concluded that the Research library should remain in the Board's main 
building and that further preparation of the first parking level for 
office use should be postponed indefinitely. The Governors appreciated 
that the use of office space for a 12,000 to 15,000 square foot library 
would use up proposed expansion space and that with the continuation 
of the Board's staff growth at current rates all available office space 
might be filled within three to five years, especially if offices for 
professional staff were enlarged, as had been suggested by some members 
of the Board. 
However, the consensus of the Governors' views was that a higher 
percentage of occupancy of the Board complex would be acceptable from 
the outset and that expansion of office space, either on a parking level 

2/23/73 
-3-
or on the podium of the Martin Building, might be considered 
some later time, even at greater costs. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 
2/23/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Farmers and Merchants State Bank of Stillwater, Stillwater, 
Minnesota ("Bank"). 
As required by § 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banks of the State 
Minnesota and requested his views and recommendation thereon. The 
Commissioner did not formally object to the application but did suggest 
fche desirability of a public hearing at which interested persons might 
express their views. Notice of receipt of the application was published 
ift the Federal Register on August 3, 1971 (36 F.R. 14285) which provided 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction* A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. 
In view of the numerous comments received by the Board con-
cerning this proposal, the Board determined that a public oral 
Presentation with respect to this matter would be in the public interest, 
November 18, 1971, notice of such public oral presentation to be held 
Minneapolis, was published in the Federal Register (36 F.R. 22027). 
Subsequently, the Commerce Commission of the State of Minnesota 
Unanimously recommended that the Board deny the application and requested 

648 
-9-
a formal hearing. By notice published in the Federal Register on 
December 28, 1971 (36 F.R. 25071), the Board directed that a public hearing 
be held commencing on February 28, 1972, at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis, before the Honorable Dent D. Dalby, Administrative Law 
Judge, A H persons desiring to give testimony, present evidence or other-
wise participate in the hearing held in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on 
February 28 - March 3, 1972, were afforded an opportunity to do so. The 
fcime for filing comments and views has expired and all those received, 
a s well as the entire record of the hearing, including the transcript, 
exhibits, exceptions, rulings, all briefs and memoranda filed in connection 
with the hearing, and the Recommended Decision, findings of fact, and con-
tusions of law filed by the Administrative Law Judge have been considered 
bV the Board, 
It is hereby ordered for the reasons set forth in the Board1s 
Statement of this date, that the said application be and hereby is 
aPproved, provided that the transaction shall not be consummated (a) be-
fore the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 

_ 
6 W 
-3-
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority* 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective February 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
•V Voting for this action: 
D«ane, Sheehan and Bucher. 
Robertson and Brimmer. 
Chairman Burns and 
Voting against this 
Governors Mitchell, 
action: Governors 

650 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATION BY 
NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION, MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF BANK 
Nature of transaction. - Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 90 per 
c°nt or more of the voting shares of Farmers and Merchants State Bank of 
stillwater, Stillwater, Minnesota. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by § 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt 
o f the application to the Commissioner of Banks of the State of Minnesota 
requested his views and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner did 
n o t formally object to the application but did suggest the desirability 
of 
a public hearing at which interested persons might express their views. 
Public Hearing. - Notice of receipt of the application was 
Published cn August 3, 1971, in the Federal Register (36 F.R, 14285), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views on the proposed transaction, Numerous comments concerning the pro-' 
Posal were received by the Board and, on November 18, 1971, notice of a 
p u b H c oral presentation to be held in Minneapolis was published in the 
Federal Register (36 F.R. 22027), 
Subsequently, the Commerce Commission of the State of Minnesota 
UUanimously recommended denial of the application and requested a formal 

l>51_ 
hearing. The Board concluded that such a hearing would be in the public 
interest and, by notice published in the Federal Register on December 28, 
!971 (36 F.R. 25071), the Board directed that a public hearing be held 
commencing on February 28, 197.°., at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
before the Honorable Dent D. Dalby, Administrative Law Judge, 
A trial of the issues was held before the Administrative Law 
Judge in Minneapolis from February 28 through March 3, 1972. All persons 
dfesiring to give testimony, present evidence, or otherwise participate 
Were afforded an opportunity to do so. The voluminous transcript of 
testimony and the numerous exhibits placed into the record attest to the 
extensive participation by interested persons. 
Statutory consideration. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
fche Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly 
would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
°r to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, the 
e£fect of which, in any section of the country, ray be substantially to 
lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
°ther manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly out-
weighed 
in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs cf the communities to be served. In 
e«ch case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 

652 
-9-
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant controls 
78 banks located variously in Minnesota, Iowa, Montana, Nebraska, North 
Dakota, South Dakota, and Wisconsin. Within Minnesota, Northwest controls 
48 banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $2,2 billicn, repre-
senting 24 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in that State. 
Applicant is the second largest banking organization and bank holding company 
in Minnesota. The largest organization, First Bank System, controls 50 banks 
with close to 29 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in that State, 
As we have previously stated in our Order of January 31, 1968, 
aPproving Applicant's application to acquire The First National Bank of 
Ely (54 Federal Reserve Bulletin 222, at 223): 
against this background of present concentration, any 
proposed acquisition by one of the largest organizations 
warrants careful consideration of the effect which consum-
mation of the proposal would have in further expanding the 
size and scope of such organization, in addition to 
consideration of the probable effect of the proposal on 
competition in markets which presently are served or 
potentially could be served by the organization's subsidi-
ary banks or by the bank involved. 
Farmers and Merchants, as of year-end 1970, had deposits of less 
2/ 
$7 million, 
an amount equal to .08 per cent of total deposits in 
y,/ As of December 31, 1970. All banking data are as of this date unless 
otherwise noted. 
i/ Deposit figure does not include $2.3 million in temporary (two days) 
Public funds which were withdrawn subsequent to year-end. 

the State. The proposed acquisition therefore postures no significant 
effect on Applicant's overall size, either in absolute or relative terms. 
'The town of Stillwater (population 10,191 - 1970 census) is 
located about 18 miles northeast of downtown St. Paul and is the county 
J 
seat of Washington County, which forms the eastern edge of the Twin Cities 
a*ea and is the least populated county in the seven-county metropolitan 
area. The county's present population, according to 1970 census data, 
i8 82,948, an increase of 58 per cent since I960. However, the bulk of 
t^e increase stems from the southern portions of the county, in the 
Cottage Grove and Woodbury areas. Stillwater, situated in the north-
eastern quadrant of the county, is connected to the Metropolitan Twin 
cities Freeway System by a four-lcne highway. The major employer for 
Stillwater residents is Andersen Corporation (a large manufacturer of 
window units), located in Bayport, three miles south of Stillwater. The 
Prospect for industry growth in the Stillwater area is slim, due to the 
lack of available sites within the present city boundaries and the strict 
Minnesota anti-pollution laws which discourage development along the 
St* Croix River, which forms the eastern edge of the city and the boundary 
between Minnesota and Wisconsin* 
The principal competitive issue posed at the hearing centered 
uPon the delineation of the relevant geographic area, or "section of the 
c°untry" within which the competitive effects of Applicant's proposal 
®hould be measured. Protestants contend that the relevant competitive 
area is a seven-county area or at least the five-county Twin Cities SMSA, 

654 
-9-
either of which includes Washington County; and that, because of Applicant s 
eXtensive commercial bank holdings in the relevant area, no further ex-
pansion by Applicant through acquisition of area banks should be permitted. 
Administrative Law Judge found the Twin Cities SMSA to be the relevant 
Market (Recommended Decision is attached). However, the Board concludes 
that the actual and potential banking market of Bank is much more limited 
than the area proposed by competitors and found by the Administrative Law 
Judge as the relevant competitive market area. Much of Protestants' 
evidence on this point related to governmental boundaries incorporating 
Stillwater within the Twin Cities SMSA, Evidence of this type is not 
Psrsuasive in the absence of a showing that the governmental boundaries 
have genuine economic significance in terms of delineation of a relevant 
inking market. Stillwater is physically separated from the central urban 
^ass of Minneapolis and St. Paul by a six-to-eight mile strip of farm-
e d and, historically, urban growth from the Twin Cities area toward 
StUlwater has been very slow in comparison with growth in other direc-
tions. Such restricted growth appears to be due, at least in significant 
pa*t, to the lack of adequate sewerage facilities. The present corridor 
Q f undeveloped land is not expected to be developed for a number of years. 
Moreover, further growth is more likely to move to the south of Stillwater, 

655 
- 6 -
to the Cottage Grove area, and more likely will serve to channel some 
growth away from Stillwater rather than toward it. 
It appears that banks in Stillwater do not significantly compete 
w*th banks in St, Paul and Minneapolis. The record shows that Stillwater 
hanks are not responsive to changes in services by Twin City banks and 
that, to the extent that introduction of a banking service into the 
Minneapolis-St, Paul area was followed by the introduction of such service 
iftto Stillwater, a significant time lag intervened. After giving due 
consideration to the findings, conclusions, and reasoning of the Adminis-
trative Law Judge, and after close examination of the entire record in 
this case, the Board concludes that the Twin Cities SMSA is not the relevant 
Market for examining the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition. 
Applicant does not presently control any bank in Washington 
County. Northwest's banking subsidiary closest to Bank is located in 
d°wntown St, Paul, 18 miles from Bank, A survey of customers of Bank and 
Applicant's subsidiaries within a 25-mile radius of Bank indicates that 
there is some overlapping of the service areas, but with no significant 
competitive consequences. 
Bank competes with two other independent banks in Stillwater, 
^aitiely, First National Bank ($32 million in deposits), and Cosmopolitan 
State Bank ($10 million in deposits), and also with First State Bank in 

656 
-9-
Baypott ($9 million in deposits). Bank's proportionate share of the deposits 
held by the four competing banks has declined from 14 per cent at year-end 
1966 to 12 per cent at year-end 1970. Bank is the smallest and least 
aggressive bank in Stillwater, where the largest bank is approximately five 
times Bank's size. In the Board's view, Applicant's proposal contemplates 
nothing more than a "foothold" entry into a market dominated by another 
organization. The most likely effect of the acquisition would be to 
strengthen Bank and enable it to compete more aggressively in Stillwater. 
The only alternative to Applicant's entry through such small bank is by 
entry de novo. The projected population growth of Washington County might 
appear to make entry attractive. However, the projected population growth 
is likely to be centered to the south of Stillwater in the Cottage Grove 
area» Also, the small compact size of downtown Stillwater seems to pre-
clude de novo entry in that area. Furthermore, Stillwater appears to be 
adequately serviced with no need for any new banking offices. Finally, it 
may be noted that the Comptroller of the Currency, in June 1967, denied an 
aPplication for a new bank charter in a proposed shopping center on the 
south,side of Stillwater and it appears that, since the 1967 denial, there 
has been no material change in the need for additional banking services. 
° n the facts of record, particularly the distances separating Bank from 
applicant' s subsidiaries, the number of banks located in the intervening 
areas ancj the prohibitions of Minnesota law against branch banking, it 
aPpears that consummation of the proposal would not foreclose significant 
Potential competition. 

657 
-6-
The Department of Justice, in commenting on this application, 
stated that "'eventual deconcentration' [in Minnesota] can most likely 
come about through the development of regional holding companies" and the 
likelihood of entry into this market by small holding companies would be 
diminished if Applicant's proposed acquisition were approved. However, 
commencing with 1945, Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in 
the Twin Cities SMSA has been on the decline, from 34.0 per cent at year-
end 1961 to 31.4 per cent at year-end 1970. While the decline is not as 
Sreat as some might favor, nevertheless, the trend is downward. 
The Department of Justice's second argument in opposition to this 
^Plication is that approval of this application would result in a transfer 
o f the "overwhelming dominance enjoyed by [Applicant and First Bank 
System] from the central city to the rapidly growing suburban areas within 
the Twin Cities SMSA." It appears from the record that the rapidly 
growing suburban areas are not in that part of Washington County where 
Stillwater is located, but rather to the south of Stillwater in the. 
Woodbury and Cottage Grove ara<u»» 
The Board concludes that the consummation of the proposed trans-
ition would not result in a monopoly, nor be in furtherance of any 
combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business of banking 
in 
any part of the United States, and would not restrain trade, sub-
8tantially lessen competition, nor tend to create a monopoly in any section 
o f the country. 

658 
-9-
Convenience and needs of the communities to be served. - The 
financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant and its present 
subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory. It was stipulated by the 
Parties to the hearing that Bank is a viable banking organization and that 
the present management is competent. Applicant proposes to utilize its 
considerable personnel resources to strengthen Bank's management, and it 
is believed that the infusion of additional experienced personnel will en-
hance Bank's future prospects, especially in view of the fact that Bank's 
current president contemplates retirement in the near future. Banking 
factors lend some weight toward approval. There is no evidence that sub- 1 
'8tantial needs of banking customers in Stillwater are going unserved. However, 
consummation of the proposal will enable Bank to become a viable alternative 
Qource of full banking services and Applicant has indicated it will en-
courage Bank to expand consumer credit and home improvement financing, to 
commit funds to student loan programs, and to add and improve special 
typ es of checking accounts. Considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served are consistent with approval and 
lend some weight toward approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
w°uld be in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
February 26, 1973 

659 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
In our judgment, consummation of the proposal will eliminate 
listing competition and have an adverse effect on the deconcentration 
banking resources in the State of Minnesota, particularly in the Twin 
Cities SMSA. Based upon the facts of record, we would deny the application. 
The record shows that Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Bank 
Presently compete to some extent for deposits and, to a somewhat lesser 
extent, for loans. Thus, we agree with the Administrative Law Judge's 
finding that consummation of the transaction would eliminate some existing 
competition. We also agree with his finding that, "The evidence in this 
case indicates that Washington County, including Stillwater, is a part of 
the metropolitan marketing area and [will become further integrated 
foto the metropolitan market area] with future population growth. Con-
summation of Northwest's proposal will increase its already large share 
the area market and is inherently likely to lessen competition,11 
Applicant and First Bank System together hold almost 53 per cent 
all commercial banking deposits in Minnesota, with Applicant con-
i/ 
tolling 24 per cent. 
The record indicates that the concentration of 
deposit8 held by these two organizations is unmatched in any other unit 
banking or limited branching State. Furthermore, the data presented show 
that the combined share of deposits held by the third, fourth, and fifth 
la*gest organizations in Minnesota is the smallest among all restrictive 
branching States. 
X r ^ r r banking data are as of December 31, 1970, unless otherwise noted. 

Thig! Administrative Law Judge noted that, while the general trend 
in unit banking States, including Minnesota, is toward deconcentration, 
attributable to the chartering of banks in the fast growing suburban areas, 
nevertheless the deconcentration occurring in Minnesota over the past 
15 years is "considerably less proportionately than in most other banking 
[S] tates. With this extreme concentration, any proposed acquisition by 
°ne of the largest banking organizations warrants the most critical 
scrutiny." 
The Twin Cities SMSA is both the banking center for the Upper 
Midwest and the most rapidly growing area in Minnesota, with a 1970 popu-
lation of about 1,814,000, representing 48 per cent of Minnesota's 
Population. Over half of the commercial bank deposits in the State is 
held by banks located in the Twin Cities SMSA, Washington County, the 
county seat of which is located in Stillwater, experienced a 58 per cent 
8*owth rate during the decade of the 1960's. The population of Washington 
County is projected to increase by over 47 per cent during the 1970's. 
Thus, concentration and preemption of banking locations take on particular 
significance in the Twin Cities SMSA. 
The competitive imbalance existing in Minnesota as a whole is 
e*ceeded by that existing in the Twin Cities area, where 72 per cent «>f 
the commercial deposits are controlled by Applicant and First Bank System, 
^eir shares, respectively, being 31.4 per cent and 40.2 per cent. Such 
extreme concentration in the hands of two organizations is virtually 
unmatched in any other large unit banking SMSA. 

-3-
Of the 724 banks in Minnesota, 607 are located outside of the 
Twin Cities SMSA, and 67 of the 60 7 are affiliates of Applicant or First 
Bank System. The average size of the 67 banks of Applicant and First 
Bank System is almost four times as large as the average among the 540 
other banks located outside the Twin Cities SMSA. Applicant's and First 
Bank' 
8 affiliates are concentrated in the major population centers. It 
appears to» us that analysis of the banking structure of Minnesota dis-
closes an extreme concentration of resources in the two giant holding 
companies of Applicant and First Bank System. Moreover, the most critical 
imbalance exists in the important Twin Cities area. No significant 
decrease in concentration has occurred there, and thus far no third 
banking organization has been able to mount an effective challenge to 
the dominance of Applicant and First Bank System. 
In approving the acquisition herein, the Board seems to be 
forsaking its previously expressed concern with respect to an acquisition 
by a dominant banking organization and the resulting foreclosure of 
Opportunities for eventual deconcentration. As the Board has stated in 
£lrst Wisconsin Bank Shares Corporation (54 Federal Reserve Bulletin 645, 
at 647-648): 
...If every newly developing need for banking facilities which 
arises in a concentrated market were to be filled by the 
market's dominant organization, any meaningful deconcentra-
tion of the market's banking resources would be made 
impossible, and further concentration might be encouraged. 
Each application by such an organization to expand within 
its present trade area, even t h r o u g h acquisition of a new 
bank, must therefore be examined to determine its probable 
effect on existing concentration, whether it will foreclose 
- an opportunity for new entry which could provide additional 

20 
competition and possibly promote a decrease in concentration, 
and its effect in limiting the development of existing com-
petitors located in or near the area to be served by the new 
institution. 
It is our view that the Administrative Law Judge correctly analyzed the 
consequences of the proposed acquisition in concluding that: 
...The two largest banking organizations have preempted many 
of the good acquisitions, the major banks that are pro-
viding correspondent services. Banking competition in 
the metropolitan area and in the State will be promoted 
by development of the smaller bank holding companies. 
Acquisition by Northwest of one of the available merger-
minded banks, particularly one in a key location on the 
eastern edge of the metropolitan area, would reduce the 
growth possibilities of the smaller bank holding companies. 
In this respect, it would have an anticompetitive effect 
and be contrary to the public interest. 
A similar position was taken by the Department of Justice in its 
letter to the Board advising that such an acquisition "would have an 
adverse effect on competition in the Twin Cities SMSA." Justice commented 
that, "The 'eventual deconcentration1 can most likely come about through 
the development of regional holding companies. Besides Applicant and FB$ 
fairst Bank System], four holding companies currently operate in Minnesota, 
•^hese holding companies are much smaller than the two giants, ranging in 
si2e from $35 million to $220 million in deposits. If Applicant is 
flowed to acquire Stillwater Bank, the likelihood of entry into this 
attractive suburban area by an existing small holding company, or by a new 
holding company which might be organized by an independent bank, would 
t e n d to be diminished." 

663 
fa 5"* 
Applicant argues that Bank is so small as to render the matter 
of banking concentration inconsequential. It is true, of course, that 
Bank's deposits are but a minute fraction of Northwest's banking subsid-
iaries1 deposits. However, as the Administrative Law Judge indicated, 
approval of the subject acquisition on such a theory would allow Applicant 
"to acquire most of the commercial banks in Minnesota." To view this 
acquisition in isolation, attempting thereby to justify it as de minimis, 
would seriously violate the fundamental letter and spirit of the Bank 
Holding Company Act, As the U. S. Supreme Court said in U. S. v. 
£hiladelphia National Bank. 374 U. S. 321, at 365 fn. 42 (1963): 
...if concentration is already great, the importance 
of preventing even slight increases in concentration and so 
preserving the possibility of eventual deconcentration is 
correspondingly great. 
The Board has previously recognized the precedential effect of 
its determinations. In Charter New York Corporation (54 Federal Reserve 
jfolletin 925. at 928), the Board said: 
...Although each application must be judged on its own merits, 
sound administrative procedure requires consideration of 
the precedential effect of determinations made pursuant to 
the Act. [Citing, Brown Shoe Co. v. United States, 370 U. S. 
294 (1962).] 
While no agency is required to follow precedent which 
subsequent developments establish to be improvident, it 
should avoid establishing precedent which, if consistently 
applied, will clearly do violence to the letter and spirit 
of the legislation which it has the duty of impartially 
administering. To do otherwise would be to confer on a 
particular applicant a competitive advantage which similarly 
situated applicants would be deprived in the future of the 
opportunity to overcome, and the unwillingness of a particular 
applicant to undertake le«a anticompetitive methods of expan-
sion which are within its capability doe* not justify ouch a 
preference. 

1 664 
Approval of the subject application would encourage Applicant to 
expect approval of significant expansion by a series of small increases. 
It is our view that eventual deconcentration of this highly 
concentrated market in the Twin Cities SMSA is critically dependent upon 
a regulatory policy that effectively restricts expansion by dominant 
banking organizations in areas of their most extreme concentration (in 
the absence of overriding procompetitive considerations). Such policy 
would afford smaller banking organizations an opportunity to grow and 
develop the capability to compete effectively. We believe that such a 
policy requires denial of this application. 
On the facts of this case, we believe that the adverse effect 
that consummation of the transaction is likely to have on competition, 
and the absence of substantial benefit to the public, impel denial of 
the application. 
February 26, 1973 

ATTACHMENT 
UNITED STATES OP AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, • D. C. 
September 13, 1972 
In the matter of the 
Application 
of Northwes t 
Bancorporation, 
Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, 
for 
approval of acquisition.of 
90 
percent or more of the voting 
shares of Farmers and 
Merchants 
State Bank, 
Stillwater, 
Minnesota. 
RECOMMENDED DECISION 
Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to § 3(a) of the BanK 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)), for 
prior approval of the acquisition of 90 percent or more 
of the voting shares of Farmers and Merchants State 
Bank, Stillwater, Minnesota. 

Vublic Hearing. 
Notice of receipt of the application 
was published in the Federal Register on August 3, 1971, 
(36 Federal Register 1*4285), providing an opportunity 
for interested persons to submit comments and views on 
the proposal. 
On November 18, 1971, notice of a public 
oral presentation was published in the Federal Register. 
C36 Federal Register 22027) 
The Board concluded that a 
hearing would be in the public interest and on December 20, 
1971, issued an order pursuant to § 262.3(f) of the 
Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR § 262.3(f)) setting 
the matter for hearing. 
A prehearing conference was held on January 31, 1972, 
at Minneapolis. 
The State of Minnesota and 12 banking 
organizations entered appearances in opposition to the 
application. 
At the conference the issues were defined, 
as subsequently set forth in a Prehearing Conference 
Order dated February 16, 1972. 
Pursuant to the hearing 
notice, a trial on the issues was held at Minneapolis 
from February 28 through March 3, 1972. 
All persons 
desiring to present evidence, or otherwise participate, 
were permitted to do so. 
Briefs were filed by some of 
the parties on August 28, 1972. 
Views and Recommendations 
of Supervisory 
Authority. 
As 
required by § 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Minnesota 
Commissioner of Banks. 
The Commissioner did not object 
to the application but recommended a public hearing. 
By 
letter dated December 9, 1971, the Minnesota Commerce 
Commission unanimously disapproved the proposed acquisition. 
Statutory Considerations. 
Section 3(c) of the Act confers 
upon the Board broad discretionary authority in shaping 
banking policy with reference to bank holding company 
acquisitions and mergers. 
It enjoins approval of "any 
acquisition or merger or consolidation . . . which would 
result in a monopoly, or would be in the furtherance of 
any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt 
to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
United States" or "any other proposed acquisition or merger 
or consolidation . . . whose effect . . . may substantially 
lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which . . 
would be in restraint of trade, unless . . . the anti-
competitive effects . . . are clearly outweighed in the 
public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served." 
2 

Gi>7 
But in granting or denying approval of a proposed 
acquisition, the Board is required only to "take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of the company or companies and 
the banks concerned and the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served." 
Competitive 
Effect of Proposed Acquisition. 
Northwest 
Bancorporation is a bank holding company located in 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
It controls 48 subsidiary 
banks in Minnesota with aggregate deposits of $2.2 
billion, and 30 subsidiary banks in the states of Iowa, 
Nebraska, South Dakota, North Dakota, Montana and 
Wisconsin.!^ 
Fifteen of the subsidiary banks, with 
deposits of $1.5 billion, are located in the Twin Cities 
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area.?./ 
Commercial banking in Minnesota is highly concentrated. 
Northwest controls 24 percent of the commercial bank 
deposits in the State, and 28.8 percent of those in the 
metropolitan area. 
It and the First Bank System, Inc., 
control 52.8 percent of the commercial bank deposits of 
the State, and over 70 percent of those in the metropolitan 
area. 
The State's remaining four bank holding companies 
control only 7 percent of the State's commercial deposits. 
First Bank System holds a larger share of the commercial 
deposits in its metropolitan statistical area than does 
the largest banking organization in any other metropolitan 
statistical area in the sixteen unit banking states with 
deposits of more than one billion dollars. 
Northwest, 
tiie second largest banking organization in Minnesota, 
also holds a higher percentage of such commercial bank 
deposits than does the first largest of any other 
statistical area, with deposits of more than one billion 
dollars, with but one exception. 
=• These and all subsequent figures are as of December 31, 
1970, unless otherwise indicated. 
2/ T h e T w i n cities Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area 
consists of Anoka, Dakota, Hennepin (which includes 
Minneapolis), Ramsey (which includes St. Paul) and 
Washington (which includes Stillwater) Counties. 
3 

GG8 
The general trend in unit banking states, including 
Minnesota, is toward deconcentration attributable to the 
chartering of independent banks in the faster growing 
suburban areas. 
Deconcentration over the past 15 years 
in Minnesota, a drop of approximately 3.3 percentage 
points, is considerably less proportionately than in most 
other unit banking states. 
With this extreme concentra-
tion, any proposed acquisition by one of the largest 
banking organizations warrants the most critical scrutiny. 
As the Supreme Court stated: 
. . . if concentration is already great, 
the importance of preventing even slight 
increases in concentration and so pre-
serving the possibility of eventual decon-
centration is correspondingly great. 
United States v. Philadelphia 
National 
Bank, 
374 U.S. 321, 365 fn. 42 (1963). 
Farmers and Merchants, with deposits of $6.8 million 
(exclusive of temporary deposits of State School Funds), 
is the smallest of three commercial banks in Stillwater, 
Washington County, Minnesota. 
The other banks, Cosmopolitan 
State Bank and First National Bank, are not subsidiaries 
of a bank holding company. 
Cosmopolitan has deposits of 
$9.6 million. 
First National Bank has deposits of $32 
million. 
There are seven other banks in Washington County 
with deposits ranging from 2.1 million to $8.5 million. 
Total deposits of all commercial banks in the county amount 
to $89.6 million. 
A question posed at the hearing is, what is the relevant 
geographic area or relevant market area within which the 
competitive effects of Northwest's proposal should be 
measured. 
Protestants' evidence was directed to showing 
that the relevant market encompasses the seven-county 
planning area or, at least, the five-county metropolitan 
statistical area. 
Northwest contends that the relevant 
area is that which surrounds Stillwater, including the 
communities of Oak Park Heights and Bayport. 
Hie Twin Cities Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area is 
the fifteenth largest metropolitan area in the nation. 
Its 
population increased from 1,482 ,000 in I960 to 1,81*1,000 
in 1970. 
The area contains 48 percent of Minnesota's 
entire population. 
Washington County has a population of 
83,000 with a 10-year population growth rate of 58.2 percent. 
The population of the county is projected to increase at 
47.3 percent during the next decade. 
4 

aw 
Stillwater, the capltol of Washington County, is located 
on the eastern edge of the metropolitan area, 20 miles 
from downtown St. Paul. 
It is on the St. Croix River 
which divides Minnesota and Wisconsin. 
Its population 
is about 10,200, with a 10-year growth rate of 22.6 
percent. 
Stillwater is separated from the populated 
area of St. Paul by a 6 to 8 mile corridor of sparsely 
populated rural land. 
It is linked to Washington County 
and the remaining communities.of the metropolitan area 
by a four-lane highway system, affording quick access 
to every part of the area. 
Data from a U. S. Census of Population shows that in 
I960 (the latest figures available) 53 percent of Washington 
County's labor force and 23 percent of Stillwater's worked 
outside the county. 
Sixteen percent of Stillwater's labor 
force works in St. Paul. 
Washington County is included in 
the metropolitan area to coordinate planning and development 
by the Metropolitan Council, Metropolitan Transit Commission, 
the Metropolitan Sewer Service Board, and the Metropolitan 
Park Board. 
As of May 1971, twelve of Northwest's subsidiaries, located 
within a 25-mile radius, obtained $1,353,872 of deposits 
from 3^0 customers from the zip code area in eastern 
Washington County that includes Stillwater, or 2.68 percent 
of the Stillwater commercial deposits, and as of June 21, 
1971, two of Northwest's St. Paul subsidiaries had l8l loans 
totaling $9^6,587 to the zip code area residents. 
As of 
April 30, 1971, Farmers and Merchants obtained $156,086, 
or 2.55 percent of its deposits from the service areas of 
Northwest's metropolitan area banks and $50,702, or 1.^8 
percent of its loans (exclusive of purchased loans) from 
customers in that area. 
The Supreme Court commented on the proof required to show 
the competitive effect of a posed merger: 
We noted in Brown Shoe Co.s supra. (370 U.S. 
at 315), that "[t]he dominant theme pervading 
congressional consideration of the 1950 
amendments [to § 7] was a fear of what was 
considered to be a rising tide of economic 
concentration in the American economy." 
This 
intense congressional concern with the trend 
toward concentration warrants dispensing, in 
certain cases, with elaborate proof of market 
5 

structure, market behavior, or probable 
anticompetitive effects. 
Specifically, 
we think that a merger which produces a 
firm controlling an undue percentage share 
of the relevant market, and results in a 
significant increase in the concentration 
of firms in that market, is so inherently 
likely to lessen competition substantially 
that it must be enjoined in the absence of 
evidence clearly showing that the merger 
is not likely to have such anticompetitive 
effects. 
United States v. 
Philadelphia 
National Banksupra3 
362. 
The evidence in this case indicates that Washington County, 
including Stillwater, is a part of the metropolitan 
relevant marketing area and will experience greater 
integration with future population growth. 
Consummation 
of Northwest's proposal will increase its already large 
share of the area market and is inherently likely to 
lessen competition. 
The re is another competitive aspect that should be 
considered. 
The two largest banking organizations have 
preempted many of the good acquisitions, the major banks 
that are providing correspondent services. 
Banking 
competition in the metropolitan area and in the State 
will be promoted by development of the smaller bank 
holding companies. 
Acquisition by Northwest of one of 
the available merger-minded banks, particularly one in 
a key location on the eastern edge of the metropolitan 
area, would reduce the growth possibilities of the 
smaller bank holding companies. 
In this respect, it 
would have an anticompetitive effect and be contrary 
to the public interest. 
Northwest contends that the Stillwater Bank is so small 
as to render the matter of banking concentration incon-
sequential. 
When compared to the total deposits of 
Northwest's subsidiaries, Farmers and Merchants' deposits 
are but a minute fraction. 
But the average deposits of 
all commercial banks in Minnesota, not affiliated with 
the two large holding companies, is only $6,878,000 
($5,^7^,000 excluding those in the metropolitan area). 
The adoption of Northwest's de minimis argument would 
open the door to the large holding companies to acquire 
most of the commercial banks in Minnesota. 
2 

671 
As aptly stated by the Court in the Brown Shoe Co. case: 
We can only eat an apple a bite at a time. 
The end result of consumption is the same 
whether it be done by quarters, halves, 
three-quarters, or the whole, and is 
finally determined by our own appetites. 
A nibbler soon can consume the whole with 
a bite here and a bite there. 
So, whether 
we nibble delicately, or gobble ravenously, 
the end result is, or can be, the same. 
U. S. v. Broun Shoe Co., 179 Fed. Sup. 
721, 7^0 (1959); aff'd, 370 U.S. 29^ (1962). 
Financial 
and Managerial 
Prospects. 
The financial 
condition, management and future prospects of Northwest 
and its subsidiaries are satisfactory. 
Farmers and 
Merchants is sound financially but has failed to achieve * 
a growth equivalent to its competition. 
During the past 25 years the commercial bank market 
in Stillwater has increased 350 percent. 
Cosmopolitan 
has increased its share of the market by 395 percent, 
and First National by 370 percent, but Farmers and 
Merchants' increase has only been 2^0 percent. 
The 
anticipated combined growth of Stillwater and Washington 
County indicates favorable growth and earning prospects 
for Farmers and Merchants. 
Convenience 
and Needs of the Community. 
As to whether 
the anticompetitive effects of an acquisition would be 
clearly outweighed by the probable effects in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the community, it should 
be noted that the evidence does not indicate any presently 
unsatisfied banking need in the Stillwater community. 
The Northwest does not propose any change in the officers 
or directors of Farmers and Merchants. 
It does propose, 
in the event of acquisition, that Farmers and Merchants 
will aggressively solicit residential estate loans, 
commit funds under the Federal Government Guaranteed 
Student Loan Programs, have a stronger emphasis on 
consumer needs, including an insured home improvement 
loan program. 
Northwest proposes to provide, through 
its mortgage subsidiary, a secondary outlet for the sale 
of Farmers and Merchants mortgages. 
7 

* 
Summary and Conclusion. 
On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record and in the light of the 
factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act, the proposed 
transaction would not be in the public interest. 
The 
application should be disapproved. 
Dent D. Dalby 
Administrative Law Judge 
8 
