MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 23, 1973 

1341 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Monday, April 23, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to 
the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the 
General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, 
Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Nosker of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond 
Mr. Rosenbloom of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board authorized issuance of a statement 
Electing its approval (by order of March 30, 1973) of the application 
Patagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, indirectly to acquire shares 

134 £ 
A/23/73 
-2-
°f Creditel Corporation, Omaha, Nebraska. A copy of the statement is 
attached under Item No. 1, along with a copy of a concurring statement 
by Governor Daane. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Alabama 
ftancshares, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to First National Bank of Bay Minette, Bay Minette, Alabama, 
a n d authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
i s attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chase Manhattan 
Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of 
Trans-Asia Management Company Limited, Hong Kong, and an option to pur-
chase an interest in a new Indonesian bank. A copy of the letter sent 
t o the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First National City Bank. At the meeting on March 29, 1973, 
the 
e Board denied, Governor Daane dissenting, the application of First 
^ational City Bank, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Cititrust 
(c ayman) Ltd., Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. The Division of Supervision 
Regulation had recommended approval. Upon reconsideration at the 
meetin on April 19, 1973, the Board again denied the application. 
°vernors Daane and Bucher dissented, the latter believing that the 
•nation could be approved upon the condition that any trust 
busin 
n e s s the Cayman Islands subsidiary conducted for U.S. residents 
flUist k 
D e related to international transactions. 

* _ l.vM 3 
4-/23/73 
-3-
At today's meeting Governor Sheehan moved that the case again 
be reconsidered, and the motion was carried unanimously. 
Governor 
Sheehan stated that after further reflection he wanted to change his 
v°te to approval, with the condition previously suggested. Since other 
New York City banks had trust affiliates in the Bahamas, it did not seem 
t o him consistent to deny this application. 
After discussion the application was approved with the suggested 
condition, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. A letter was sent 
t o the applicant in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
First Piedmont Corporation. First Piedmont Corporation, Green-
ville, South Carolina, had applied for permission to acquire 9.5 per cent 
the voting shares of First Palmetto State Bank and Trust Company, 
Columbia, South Carolina. The application involved a policy question 
Aether the Board should permit investments by bank holding companies 
l n interests in banks of greater than 5 per cent (permitted by statute 
Wlthout Board approval) but less than 25 per cent (at which point pre-
SumPtions of control arose). In a memorandum of April 12, 1973, the 
Vision of Supervision and Regulation recommended a negative conclusion 
with r respect to that question, and therefore denial of the application. 
Banking Markets Section recommended approval, as did the Federal 
Re 
eserve Bank of Richmond. 
After discussion at today's meeting, during which Mr. Nosker, 
Seni0r \y 
vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, commented 

134-1 
4
/23/73 
-4-
°n the rationale underlying the Bank's recommendation, the application 
W a s approved. Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. 
It was under-
stood that an order to implement this decision would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration, and that a dissenting statement or statements 
also would be prepared. 
Walter E. Heller International Corporation. In a memorandum of 
April 10, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Bank-
Irig Markets Section recommended approval of the applications of Walter E. 
^ U e r International Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, (1) to become a 
°ank hold ing company through acquisition of shares of The American 
National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago; and (2) to retain certain 
n°nbanking activities (the applicant intended to divest two nonpermissible 
Manufacturing subsidiaries within two years of formation of the bank 
ing company). The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago also recommended 
aPproval. in a memorandum of April 9 the Division of Supervision and 
eSulation recommended approval of the Corporation's application to 
etain its foreign investments after it becomes a bank holding company. 
After discussion, including comments by Mr. Rosenbloom of the 
Re 
Search Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, the applica-
tions were approved, subject to divestment of the two nonpermissible 
friatiuf 
acturing activities within two years. Governors Robertson and 
Br • 
l m m e r dissented from these actions. It was understood that an order 
Piementing these decisions would be drafted for the Board's consideration, 
and t h . 
a c a dissenting statement or statements also would be prepared. 

6 
4/23/73 
-8-
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Smith, Feldberg, Coyne, O'Brien, O'Connell, Solomon, Nicoll, and Oehmann, 
and Mrs. Semia, and the following entered: 
Mr. Justin T. Watson, Acting Comptroller of the Currency 
Mr. Robert Bloom, Chief Counsel, Office of the Comptroller 
of the Currency 
Mr. Robert B. Serino, Director of Enforcement and 
Compliance, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Herbert J. Miller, Jr., Special Counsel to the Board 
Removal proceedings. On August 1, 1972, the Board (with 
Camp, then Comptroller of the Currency, sitting as a member) voted 
t o commence removal proceedings against Louis J. Roussel, Director, 
National American Bank of New Orleans, New Orleans, Louisiana, under 
the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966, pursuant to certi-
fication by the Comptroller. On February 15, 1973, the Board authorized 
lssuance of a notice of intent to remove Mr. Roussel from office. Before 
notice could be served upon Mr. Roussel, however, it became known 
that Messrs. Sam J. Recile and Frank Spalitta, two of the principal 
Wltnesses on whom the Board would have to rely in presenting the bulk 
0 f its case, had been indicted by a grand jury in New Orleans (on charges 
Unrelated to the charges cited in the notice of intention to remove 
Roussel). The notice of intention to remove Mr. Roussel was there-
fore recalled without being served upon him, pending consideration of 
e changed circumstances. 

4-/23/73 
-6-
In a letter of March 1, 1973, Mr. Miller, the Board's Special 
Counsel in connection with the Roussel matter, expressed the view that 
with one exception, the Recile-related allegations in the notice of 
intention to remove might very well fail of proof without credible 
testimony from Messrs. Recile and Spalitta. The exception was the 
"Five Flags transactions." Mr. Miller's letter mentioned several 
Aspects of those transactions and indicated that, if factual investi-
gation revealed that the terms of the settlement involved had entailed 
sacrifice of liabilities to the bank, the Board's chances of showing 
financial damage to the bank arising from these transactions would be 
substantially strengthened. 
The Board might then issue a revised notice 
Earned principally on these transactions. He therefore recommended that 
^ e Board refer the matter back to the Comptroller of the Currency for 
re~examination of those transactions. 
If the Comptroller's Office, in 
t'rie light of that re-examination, was of the view that the case merited 
going forward on the basis of a revised notice, recertification by the 
Q 
^omptroll er would seem highly desirable in order to minimize the risk 
of a vital jurisdictional defect at some later stage in the proceedings. 
In 
a memorandum of March 9, 1973, Messrs. O'Connell, Solomon, and 
Mar * 
lriaccio concurred in Mr. Miller's recommendation. 
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, in a memorandum 
March 19} expressed the view that the suggestion for re-referral was 
founded a nd urged that the notice of charges be served without 

1347 
4/23/73 
-7-
further delay. The Office pointed out that four years had already 
Passed since the original certification was made to the Board, and 
mentioned circumstances in support of views that (1) the indictment of 
Messrs. Recile and Spalitta did not make them unavailable as witnesses; 
(2) the indictment of Messrs. Recile and Spalitta did not add signifi-
cantly to the already existing and fully discussed problems concerning 
their credibility; (3) the threat of reversal on appeal was remote and 
°ould riot be based only on questions of law; and (4) the facts necessary 
t o sustain the notice of charges had been supplied by the Office of the 
omptroller. Counter arguments were presented by Mr. Miller in a letter 
o f April 16, 1973. 
Discussion at today's meeting principally reflected elaboration 
the views presented in the documentation by the Board's staff on the 
° n e hand and by the staff of the Comptroller on the other. The Comp-
troller's representatives expressed doubt that their present resources 
of 
expertise were sufficient to permit the additional investigation 
Su8gested, in the light of other investigations under way, and suggested 
t*lat further exploration be undertaken by the Board's staff. Ensuing 
comments indicated that the Board had no pre-investigative powers; the 
C a c t s must be obtained through certification by the Comptroller. 
There 
W a s di-scussion of possible procedures and of the length of time the 
m a tter would be further delayed if additional investigation were undertaken. 

1348 
4/23/73 
-8-
Governors Robertson and Brimmer had dissented from the August 1, 
1972, action by the Board to commence removal proceedings. At today's 
meeting, Governor Robertson reiterated his reasons for believing that 
Proceedings should not be commenced, but said that if the Board did 
want to go forward it would be well to follow the route recommended by 
Mr. Miller in order to establish the best case. Governor Brimmer said 
that he would reverse his stand against commencing proceedings, on the 
assumption that obtaining an appropriate certification would not result 
lri an undue delay. 
The Board approved referral of the question of removal proceed-
ings against Mr. Roussel back to the Comptroller of the Currency, for 
further investigation and possible recertification. Acting Comptroller 
the Currency Watson abstained from this action.JV 
Mr. Watson and members of his staff then x^ithdrew, as did all 
members of the Board's staff except Messrs. Holland and Smith, and 
Wood of the Division of Personnel Administration entered the room. 
Officer appointment. Mr. Holland advised the Board of Mr. Tynan 
Smith's plans to retire effective on or about June 30, 1973, and recom-
mended the appointment of Mr. Chester B. Feldberg as Secretary of the 
^°ard, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $37,000. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he had no objection to Mr. Feldberg's 
appointment but expressed concern that the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
^ o rk might feel that the Board was enticing one of its key employees 
•i/ A summary of the discussion prepared by the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency has been placed in the Board's files. 

134.9 
4/23/73 
-9-
away from the Bank. Mr. Holland reported that he had discussed the 
matter with President Hayes and felt that the Bank was amenable to 
the transfer; in fact, he believed the Bank was pleased to have one 
of its officers selected for this position. 
The Board unanimously approved Mr. Feldberg's appointment as 
Secretary of the Board, at an annual salary of $37,000, effective 
July l, 1973. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
4/23/73 
P°r immediate release 
April 23, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
/:*-ously, by Order dated Ilarch 30, 1973, announced its approval 
of a 
Application by Patagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, a 
folding company, to acquire Creditel Corporation, Omaha, 
taska. Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
^ dimmer participated. 
a 
Attached are the Board's Statement relating to that action 
Concurring Statement of Governor Daane. 
A h 
c^ents 

1351 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATION 3Y 
PATAGONIA CORPORATION, TUCSON, ARIZONA 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF CREDITEL CORPORATION 
Patagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, a bank holding 
°mPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
iGci for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ _ 
* 4(b) (2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire through its 
salary, ITodel Finance Company, all of the voting shares of 
^clii- i 
•'-cgi Corporation of Nebraska No. 1, Omaha; Creditel 
rrjoration of Nebraska No. 2, Omaha; and Creditel Corporation 
Of 
Goraska No. 4, Columbus; all located in the State cf Nebraska 
each of which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Creditel 
4-cltion, Omaha, Nebraska. Creditel Corporation, through these 
^orxes, en'gages m the activities of making, acquiring, or 
ncJ loans or other extensions of credit for personal, 
^ily 
' ° r household purposes, and acts as insurance agent or 
* selling credit life, accident and health insurance, 
°P£rtv damage insurance for collateral supporting loans 
to b0rr 
ovjers from these finance subsidiaries. Such activities 
^ 
be-
determined by the Board to be closely related to the 
130 of banking (12 CFR 225.4 (a)(1), (3) and (9) (ii) (a) ) . 
Notice of the application,, affording opportunity for 
ltltetc 
persons to submit comments find views on the public 
tote 
, 
^actors, has been duly published (38 Federal Register 

1352 
-2-
^64). The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
th 
Board has considered all comments received in the light of 
Public interest factors set forth in 5 4(c)(8) of the Act 
il2 u.S.c. 1843 (c) (8)) . 
Applicant's banking subsidiary, Great Western Bank and 
Company, is the fourth largest banking organization in 
xts deposits of $177 million represent 3.9 per cent of 
tot^n - 
T / 
deposits in the State.±J 
Great Western makes consumer 
st^llinent loans through its headquarters office in Phoenix 
in 
branch offices throughout Arizona. Hodel Finance Company, 
Ionia's consumer finance holding company, has offices 
*-ing in Arizona, Nevada, Nov; Mexico, and Colorado. 
c£ed.itel Corporation, operating through its three sub-
Creditel Corporation of Nebraska Eos. 1, 2 and 4, is 
consumer finance company with installment receivables 
$3 . . 
Million.2/ It has three offices, two in Omaha and one 
•^roous, about. 80 miles west of Omaha. Creditel makes small 
- J.oans and sells credit insurance in connection with its 
^iriq 
Activities. The local markets for consumer loans in 
Crc • 
... 
cciitel. competes include a number of offices of the largest 
'°^panies in the country. 
^ Al]' 
data are as of June 30, IS72. 
n°nbanking data are as of September 30, 1972. 

1353 
-2-
Consummation of the proposal would eliminate no existing 
between any of Applicant's existing subsidiaries 
Creditel, nor, in view- of the distances involved, is it 
^kely that any such competition v/ould develop in the absence 
Of *.h 
*-ne Proposal. There is no evidence in the record indicating 
that 
- consummation of the proposed transaction v/ould result in 
undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, 
-•^icts of interests, unsound banking practices, or other 
effects on the public interest. 
St is anticipated that Creditel Corporation's affiliation 
^ applicant will give Creditel Corporation access to the 
resources of Applicant, and enable it to compete more 
fectively with other consumer finance companies in the area 
it operates. On balance, the Board concludes that the 
P u hUc i 
benefits factors the Board is required to consider under 
(8) outweigh any possible adverse effects that might 
" from the proposed acquisition. In its consideration of 
tlUs 
atter, the Board has taken into account Applicant's 
u 'Qnt not to enforce or rely upon a covenant not to compete 
° 
c 
.
.
.
. 
u J.-.cm Creditel' s majority stockholder in connection with 
thic; . 
^ansaction. 

.. 1354 
-4-
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
In the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the 
Public interest factors the Board is required to consider under 
* 4(c) (3) is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby 
^Proved. This determination is subject to the conditions 
SGt forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's 
Authority to require such modification or termination of the 
activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as 
th 
G Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions 
and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
lssued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 

1355 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR DAANE 
I concur in the Board's approval of this application.!/ 
}I°WeVer T * 
' 1 wis.i to express my views on the Board's statement 
that it- has taken into account Applicant's commitment to drop 
venant not to compete which had been entered into with 
CrG<Utei » 
s principal shareholder. The "taken into account" 
simply means that the other Board members' approval 
is contingent on Applicant's dropping said covenant. 
such covenants have a lone history of use in connection 
Hth t h 
0 sale of basically owner-operated businesses, and their 
U^itv i 
r
 
y n a s 
sustained by the courts so long as they are 
~ e in scope, duration, and geographic, area. Such 
Gnants - 
r 
° perform a useful economic function by rendering the 
v 
a business saleable. They assure to the buyer the 
Ml® 
r 
he has bought. 
In * 
r 
judgment, the covenant not to compete in this 
^ 
the tests of being reasonable in scope, duration, 
t , 
" P l c ^rea. The consumer finance industry is charac-
b y , 
* 
ov; barriers to entry and the covenant appears 
0c"S3ary to assure Applicant of the value of his 
' 
Jurtner, .in this case, payment for the covenant does 
appear +. 
t^ 
I:o a device to avoid any Board policy, such as 
teSqUil-? nrr 
" 
ar< cquaj offer to all shareholders. 
s to 
who was absent and not voting on this action f 
"Press his agreement with this concurring position« 

- 2 -
1356 
Under these circumstances, it is my belief that the Board 
should not have taken the covenant, or the Applicant's expressed 
Willingness to drop it in order to obtain approval, into account, 
ln the sense of a condition of approval,in acting on the 
application. 

1357 
Item No. 2 
4/23/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST ALABAMA BANCSIiARES , INC . 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
I] j 
1842(a) (3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying 
^ares) of the voting shares of the successor by merger to First 
National Bank of Bay Minette, Bay Minette, Alabama ("Bank"). The 
bank j 
-unto which Bank is to merged has no significance except as a 
s to facilitate the acquisition of voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
thg »» 
itoposed acquisition Is treated herein as the proposed acquisition 
°f 
shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
<-o submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) o f 
r the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and non 
e has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion i r» i j 
•liSht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c))_ 
Applicants the second largest banking organization in Alabama, 
c°ntrolo c 
-our banks with total deposits of $565.5 million, which repre-
s s 9 o 
* per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 

1358 
-2-
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1972.) Approval of this application 
W o u l d r*ot significantly increase Applicant's share of State-wide deposits, 
ar*d its present ranking in the State would remain unchanged. 
Bank ($13.7 million in deposits) is the seventh largest of 
1 ** i 
J banks in the Mobile banking market (approximated by Mobile and 
lald^in counties), and controls only 2 per cent of deposits in commercial 
banks in that market. Applicant's nearest subsidiary is located in 
u°ntgomery, approximately 150 miles from Bank. No meaningful com-
J-t^on exists between Bank and any of Applicant's present subsidiaries, 
n° r does it appear likely that such competition would develop in the 
uture in view of the distances separating Bank from Applicant's 
uksidiaries, the number of intervening banks, and the State's restrictive 
branching laws. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are satisfactory. 
Considerations 
nS to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
insistent with approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that consumma-
tion of t-Vi 
^ne proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that 
e aP?Ucation should be approved. 
the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
t63§ons 
summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before tl 
thirtieth calendar day following the efective date of this 

1359 
-3-
Otder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,-' effective April 23, 1973 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Bri V ° t i n & f o r t h i s a c t i ° n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
m°ier, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

13 60 
B D A R D D F 
G G V E R N D R S 
Item No. 3 
of GOW-V. 
O F 
T H E 
4/23/73 
^UREStf 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P a N O E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 23, 1973 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 29, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CMOBC") to purchase 
and hold 75 per cent of the shares of Trans-Asia Management Company 
Limited ("TAM"), Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately $10,000, pro-
vided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
It is understood that TAM will provide management services 
to P,T„ Indo-Commercial Bank ("ICB"), Jakarta, Indonesia, a new bank. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of TAM by CMOBC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions; 
(1) That TAM will confine its activities to the providing 
of management and technical services to foreign banks 
or other financial institutions; 
(2) That CMOBC will keep the Board of Governors fully in-
formed as to all management or technical assistance 
agreements entered into with foreign firms; and 
(3) That so long as TAM provides management or other 
services to ICB, that bank shall confine its activities 
to international or foreign banking and other inter-
national or foreign financial operations. 
The Board also grants consent for CMOBC to hold an option 
t o purchase up to 37-1/2 per cent of the shares of ICB provided that 
Prior Board approval be obtained before CMOBC exercises such option. 

1361 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National Association and 
its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1362 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
•^oVcoW, 
n r T H E 
4/23/73 
" 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C 0 R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 23, 1973 
First National City Bank 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of April 24 and May 9, 1972, 
the Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for your bank ("FNCB") to 
f«'»rm and wholly own, without capital investment, Cititrust (Cayman) 
Ltd. (" CC") . a "limited liability trust company to be formed in Grand 
Cayman, Cayman Islands, having a maximum legal liability of approxi-
mately $260,000, provided CC is formed within one year from the date 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
CC by FNCB is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if CC shall in any manner engage in 
any activity or take any action whatsoever that 
would not be. permissible if CC were a corpora-
tion organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
FNCB will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of CC as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if CC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

First National City Bank 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
trust company will be used for developing international business 
and not as a means of shifting domestic trust business from offices 
in the United States. 
In particular, CC should do no business with 
U.S. residents unless such business is clearly related to a bona fide 
international or foreign business transaction. 
In addition, FNCB shall maintain at its head office in New 
York and make available to examiners of the Board or the Comptroller 
the Currency complete information on CC's transactions with U.S. 
residents and information necessary to assess the financial condition 
CC, Failure to make adequate information available to examiners 
S-iall be deemed a violation of this consent. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition the?r the 
investment will be made within tha Foreign Credit Restraint. Guide-
lines aa they apply lo FNCB and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
