MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 3, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Revocation of Regulation B (Open Market 
Purchases of Bills of Exchange, Trade 
Acceptances, Bankers' Acceptances) and 
Regulation C (Acceptances by Member Banks 
of Drafts or Bills of Exchange), contingent 
upon amendment by the Federal Open Market 
Committee of its Regulation Relating to 
Open Market Operations of Federal Reserve 
Banks, 

24 y J 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 3, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. Pursuant to a recommendation in a memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated June 28, 1973, the 
Board unanimously approved a letter to William D. Morrison in connection 

2 it* *c* 
7/3/73 
-2-
with his inquiry whether a subordinated loan agreement between Irving 
Trust Company, New York, New York, and a broker/dealer firm complied 
with the Board's margin regulations. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No . 1. It was understood that the letter also might be used 
to supply guidance to banks or brokers who might submit similar future 
requests to the Board. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Continental 
Illinois Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire additional shares 
of Sovereign Mortgage Insurance Company, Toronto, Canada. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Alabama 
Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to J. C. Jacobs Banking Company, Inc., Scottsboro, Alabama, 
a n d authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First City 
Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of 
First Professional Bank, National Association, Houston, Texas, a proposed 
new bank, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. A. 
Pursuant to the Board's decision on June 28, 1973, to propose 
to amend Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, to clarify the permissible 
deposit-taking activities of trust company affiliates of bank holding 

7/3/73 
-3-
companies, and as recommended in a memorandum from the Legal Division 
dated July 2, 1973, the Board unanimously approved publication for comment 
of a revised proposed amendment. It was understood that the proposed 
amendment would reflect suggested editorial changes. Copies of the 
proposed amendment and related press release are attached under Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Regulation T. In a memorandum dated June 27, 1973, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation and the Capital Markets Section recommended 
that the Board approve publication for comment of a proposed amendment 
to Regulation T, Credit By Brokers and Dealers, that would reverse a 
Board position taken in letters of May 25, 1971, and June 8, 1971, that 
permitted broker/dealers to sell certain special kinds of cattle, citrus, 
and condominium programs on credit. 
After discussion the Board unanimously approved publication 
of the proposed amendment. Copies of the proposed amendment and related 
press release are attached under Item No. 6. 
First International Bancshares. In a memorandum dated June 22, 
1973, the Divisions of Supervision and Regulation and Research and Statis-
tics recommended approval of the application of First International 
Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, to acquire shares of the successor by 
merger to The First National Bank of Harlingen, Harlingen, Texas. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 7. 

I ; 2494 
7/3/73 
-4-
In a memorandum dated June 22, 1973, the Divisions of Supervision 
and Regulation and Research and Statistics recommended approval of the 
application of First International Bancshares, Inc., to acquire shares 
of the successor by merger to The First National Bank of Odessa, Odessa, 
Texas. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 8. 
Regulations B and C. In a memorandum dated June 28, 1973, 
the Legal Division presented background material for its recommendation 
that Regulation B, Open Market Purchases of Bills of Exchange, Trade 
Acceptances, Bankers' Acceptances, and Regulation C, Acceptances By 
Member Banks of Drafts or Bills of Exchange, be revoked. In this 
connection the Legal Division also recommended that the Federal Open 
Market Committe amend its Regulation Relating to Open Market Operations 
of Federal Reserve Banks to incorporate all relevant provisions governing 
the open market purchase and sale of bankers' acceptances in that Regu-
lation. 
After discussion the Board unanimously approved revocation of 
its Regulations B and C, such action to be contingent upon necessary 
action being taken by the Federal Open Market Committee to amend its 
Regulation. 

i ~ '> i q r 
J _ (V 4 v/« / 
7/3/73 
-5-
Regulatlon Q. There was further discussion of interest rate 
ceilings for commercial banks and savings and loan associations in 
connection with a meeting of the Interagency Coordinating Committee on 
Bank Regulation that Governor Mitchell was to attend later in the day. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened at 3:30 p.m. in the 
Board Room, with Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Holland 
present and appropriate staff members in attendance. 
Regulation 0. Governor Mitchell reported on the matters discussed 
at a meeting of the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regu-
lation that he had attended earlier this afternoon regarding possible 
actions that might be taken with respect to interest rate ceilings for 
commercial banks and savings and loan associations. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

BOARD DF G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20551 
9 
Item No. 1 
7/3/73 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 6, 1973 
William D. Morrison, Esq. 
Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts 
4 0 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Dear Mr. Morrison: 
Your letter of May 30, 1973, asks for the views of the 
Board of Governors on the Subordinated Loan Agreement (the Agreement) 
dated May 29, 1973, between Irving Trust Company ("Bank") and 
Faulkner, Dawkins & Sullivan, Inc., a registered broker/dealer and 
member firm of the New York Stock Exchange ("Broker/Dealer"). You 
enclosed a copy of the Agreement and wish to know whether it is in 
conformity with the margin and other requirements of the Board of 
Governors' Regulation U, "Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing 
or Carrying Margin Stocks" (12 C.F.R. 221.) and of the Board's 
Regulation X, "Rules Governing Borrowers Who Obtain Securities Credit" 
(12 C.F.R. 224). 
The Board does not believe it would be appropriate to comment 
in detail on an agreement of this kind. The following discussion of 
the general considerations which would be applicable may, however, be 
helpful. 
Section 221.1(a) of Regulation U forbids a bank to extend 
any credit, if the credit is secured, directly or indirectly, by any 
stock, for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock 
(as defined in section 221.3(v)) unless the credit is cither collateralized 
as required by the current Supplement to the regulation (section 221.4) 
or specifically exempted therefrom (section 2.20,5 of Regulation T would 
be applicable, of course, if the credit is collateralized by registered 
securities). Regulation X requires, in substance, that credit 
extended to a borrower who is a United States citizen or resident, as 
Broker/Dealer is, must comply with the margin regulation applicable to 

William D. Morrison, Esq. 
- 2 -
* " 2497 
the lender (or to the regulation which would apply if the lender 
were head-quartered in the United States) if the borrower itself 
is not to be in violation of the regulation. 
The Board has concluded that credit extended to a broker/dealer 
which purchases and carries for customers stocks that are registered 
on a national securities exchange (hence margin stock), as Broker/Dealer 
does, "should be considered to be for the purpose of purchasing or 
carrying registered stock . . ." (1946 Federal Reserve Bulletin 955; 
Published Interpretations of the Board of Governors <[ 6450). You have 
stated that the credit to be extended under the Agreement would not be 
eligible for any of the exemptions provided in the regulation. Hence, 
if the credit is secured directly or indirectly by any stock, Regu-
lation U and Regulation X would apply. 
Under the terms of the Agreement, Bank expressly disclaims 
any lien on the assets of Broker/Dealer. The Agreement does not 
contain any provision for the pledge of specific collateral, and you 
have stated that no such collateral will be pledged with the lenders 
or in any way deposited for their benefit out of the borrower's 
control. A substantial portion of the borrower's assets, however, 
consists of margin securities, and it is necessary to consider whether, 
under the Agreement, such securities would indirectly secure the credit. 
Se ction 221.3(c) of Regulation U provides that: 
"The term "indirectly secured" includes any 
arrangement with the customer under which the 
customer's right or ability to sell, pledge,'or 
otherwise dispose of stock owned by the customer 
is in any way restricted so long as the credit remains 
outstanding, or under which the exercise of such 
right, whether by written agreement or otherwise, is 
or may be cause for acceleration of the maturity of 
the credit: Provided, That the foregoing shall not 
apply (1) if such restriction arises solely by 
virtue of an arrangement with the customer which 
pertains generally to the customer's assets unless 
a substantial part of such assets consists of 
stock, or (2) if the bank in good faith has not 
relied upon such stock as collateral in the ex-
tension or maintenance of the particular credit: 
And provided further. That the foregoing shall 
not apply to stock held by the bank only in the 
capacity of custodian, depositary, or trustee, 
or under similar circumstances, if the bank in 
good faith has not relied upon such stock as 
collateral in the extension or maintenance of 
the particular credit." 

2 1 3 8 
William D. Morrison, Esq. 
- 3 -
You have expressed particular concern that certain statements included 
in the opinion of the Court in the recent case of Cooper v. Union Bank, 
Civil No. 71-343-F (C.D. Cal., filed Feb. 12, 1973), Current CCHFed. 
Sec. L. Rep. If 93,915 at 93,654 (1973) might give rise to an inference 
that assets of Broker/Dealer will constitute indirect security for the 
extension of credit under the Agreement. In that case, the Court held 
that a bank had relied indirectly upon stock held in the borrower's 
brokerage account in extending credit to him, and that the loan was in 
violation of the Board's Regulation U. 
The Board believes that the circumstances upon which the 
Court relied in the Cooper case to support its finding should be 
distinguished from those which obtain in respect to an appropriate 
subordination agreement approved by an appropriate national securities 
exchange or a "satisfactory subordination agreement" as defined in 
paragraph (c)7 of Rule 15c3-l of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
under which capital is provided to a broker/dealer firm. In general, 
such a subordination agreement provides that the credit extended under 
it to a broker/dealer shall be subordinated to the claims of general 
creditors, cannot be withdrawn until six months' notice has been 
given the firm (or a minimum notice period of one year has elapsed 
from the time the credit is first extended), and cannot be withdrawn 
in any event while the firm's net capital is below the ratio fixed 
by the appropriate supervisory body. 
Under section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(the Act), Congress has entrusted to the Board the responsibility 
for promulgating regulations governing the extension, arranging for, 
and maintenance of credit to purchase or carry securities, with 
the object of preventing the "excessive" or potentially destabilizing 
use of such credit. A primary focus of the Board's concern is that 
an attempt to withdraw credit from a broker/dealer firm should not 
result in the sale of stock into a declining securities market. Such 
a sale could have a destabilizing potential for the market. The 
provisions in Regulations G and U that credit is subject to the 
regulations if "indirectly secured" by any margin securities (or 
by any stock, in the case of Regulation U), must be read in the 
light of this important policy consideration. 
If a minimum of six months must elapse after notice of 
withdrawal is given -- or an event of acceleration occurs 
before 
credit can be withdrawn it seems probable that any destabilizing 
impact of the sale of the borrower's assets will be minimized 
despite his duty to place his business in such a posture L'nat he 
can make the repayment. This would still be the case even though 
the supervisory authority, for example the primary exchange of which 
the borrower was a member, assumed the power to direct sales of 
assets, as it may do when certain events of acceleration occur. 

William D. Morrison, Esq. 
- 4 -
2199 
Such a supervisory authority, having a duty to all its members 
and to public customers, would be unlikely to direct that stocks 
be sold in a potentially destabilizing manner. 
Any provision under which the lender could direct or 
require immediate sale of the borrower's assets could have a 
contrary effect. Such a provision would give the lender a "handle" 
over the assets, and could lead to a conclusion that the credit 
was indirectly secured by such assets. An example would be a 
provision for an "event of default" under which the lender could 
demand immediate payment at a time when the borrower was still 
solvent and able to remain in operation. 
It is hoped that the above discussion will assist you in 
advising your client. If you have any further questions, the Board's 
staff or staff of the New York Reserve Bank will be glad to discuss 
them with you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2500 
Item No. 2 
7/3/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRE5PQNOENCE 
TQ THE BOARD 
July 5, 1973 
Continental Illinois Corporation 
231 South LaSalle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60693 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 25, 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant'to the 
Provisions of Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, as amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regu-
lation Y, for your corporation to purchase and hold 
additional shares of Sovereign Mortgage Insurance Company 
^Sovereign"), Toronto, Canada, at a cost of approximately 
yi,600,000 in order to maintain your 20 per cent interest 
m Sovereign. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
'Secretary of the Board 

2501 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEII 
7/3/73 
ALABAMA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Alabama Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
the successor by merger to J.C. Jacobs Banking Company, Inc., Scottsboro, 
Alabama ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no signifi-
cance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares 
of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
none has been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is the largest banking organization in Alabama, 
controlling five banks with total deposits of $972.6 million, representing 
14.3 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in Alabama .If Acquisi-
tion of Bank (deposits of $17.7 million) would not significantly increase 
the concentration of banking resources in Alabama. 
U 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1972 except where otherwise 
noted, and represent bank holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board through May 31, 1973. 

2 5 0 2 
-2-
There are four banking organizations with three banks and one 
branch in Jackson County (the relevant market). Bank is the second largest 
organization in the market, holding 27.8 per cent of total market deposits 
as of June 30, 1972. The largest bank in Jackson County controls over 
AO per cent of the deposits in the market as of the same date. A subsidiary 
of the second largest holding company in the State has a branch in the 
market. It is unlikely that approval of the proposed transaction would lead 
to domination of the area's other banks by Bank. 
Applicant's subsidiary closest to Bank is located 64 miles distant, 
and there is no existing competition between this subsidiary or any of 
Applicant's other subsidiary banks and Bank. Moreover, Applicant's mortgage 
banking subsidiary, EngelMortgage Company, has not originated mortgage 
loans in Jackson County for several years and does not presently compete 
with Bank. It does not appear likely that meaningful competition between 
Bank and Applicant would develop in the future in view of Alabama's restrictive 
banking laws and the limited prospects of the market for de novo entry3J 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposal herein will not result in any significant increase in concen-
tration of banking resources in Alabama nor have any adverse effect on 
competition in any relevant area. 
2/ Income levels in Jackson County are significantly below those of the 
State as a whole, while the population per banking office (3,700) relative 
to the State average (6,300) makes Scottsboro an unattractive location for 
de novo entry. 

_ 2503 
-3-
Considerations relating to the managerial and financial resources 
and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. Considerations 
relating to the needs of the community to be served lend some weight for 
approval of the application since Applicant's acquisition of Bank will 
enable the latter to expand its services within the market. The Board 
finds that approval of the application is in the public interest. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective July 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feld'oerg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Sheehan, 
Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane and Brimmer. 

Item No 
7/3/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC, 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board!s approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of First Professional Bank, National 
Association, Houston, Texas ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the third largest banking organization in Texas 
and the largest in the Houston banking market (approximated by the 
Houston SMSA), controls 15 banks with total deposits of $1,812.5 
million, which represents 5.96 per cent of total commercial bank 
deposits in the State, and 20.04 per cent of all such deposits in 
the Houston market.—^ In addition, Applicant owns voting shares 
t t Banking data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding 
company acquisitions and formations approved through May 31, 1973. 

2-
, _2505 
in 13 other banks with aggregate deposits of $372.9 million--which 
represents an additional 1.22 per cent of the State's total commer-
2/ 
cial bank deposits.*" 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
not immediately increase Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits 
either in Texas or in the Houston market. Applicant's nearest present 
subsidiary, Highland Village State Bank, is located six miles away, 
outside Bank's proposed service area. Within that service area, 
Bank will face significant competition from three other commercial 
banks, including the tenth largest banking organization in the Houston 
market. Accordingly, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any 
relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
present subsidiary banks, and Bank are satisfactory. Considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
lend weight toward approval, since Bank will be located near the 
rapidly expanding Texas Medical Center and will provide an additional 
source of services to customers in or near this complex. It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition is in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
V 
The Board's Order of January 4, 1973, conditions approval of Applicant's 
acquisitions of Highland Village State Bank, Houston, Texas, and of First 
State Bank of Clear Lake City, Clear Lake City, Texas, upon divestiture 
of direct or indirect control of all voting shares in excess of five per 
cent of both South Main Bank and Heights State Bank, both of Houston, Texas. 
The figures above do not reflect any such divestiture. 

250G 
- 5 -
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) First 
Professional Bank, National Association, Houston, Texas, shall be opened 
for business not later than six months after the effective date of this 
Order, Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
pursuant to delegated authority, 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,"" effective July 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
3/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Sheehan, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Daane and Bucher. 

^ — — 
!l ® — i I JMI1M
^^ i l K - 
. • 
- 
... 
.:x. 
'--f^r^fi-' 
Item No. 5 
7/3/73 
p°r immediate release 
Julv 3, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today proposed an 
amendment to its bank holding company regulation to clarify the deposit-taking 
act"ivlties permitted to trust company subsidiaries. 
The proposal concerns trust company subsidiaries that are not "banks" 
Wlthin the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act (that is, they do not both 
accept demand deposits and engage in the business of making commercial loans). 
S l 
1 trust companies would be permitted to accept deposits that are (1) generated 
0 u t c»f funds received under trust instruments or (2) represent funds that are 
~Gccived for a special use on behalf of an issuer of securities or an investor 
n Secu^ities. Bank holding companies could apply to acquire such trust 
c°mpanies across State lines. 
The proposal would also permit bank holding companies to apply to acquire 
c°mPanies that are chartered by the Comptroller of the Currency to engage solely 
l n trust company activities. 
The Board's proposal takes note of recent developments in New York in 
riic.h limited purpose trust companies are being established to furnish stock 
t ra 
r*3fer and related services and to accept deposits incidental thereto. Also, 
Comptroller has recently granted a national bank charter to a company 
r8anized solely to engage in carrying on the business of a commercial bank 
t l U 8 t department and activities incident to such business. 
Interested persons are invited tc submit commento in writing to the 
Secretary or the Board through August 6, 1973. 
A copy of the Board's proposal is attached. 
- 0 -

_ 2508 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR PART 222] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanking Activities and Interests 
Pursuant to its authority under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)), the Board proposes to amend 
§ 225.4(a)(4) of its Regulation Y to clarify the boundaries upon deposit-
taking activities that are properly incidental to trust company activities 
which the Board has determined to be so closely related to banking or 
managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto, and to 
Provide that the kinds of activities authorized under § 225.4(a)(4) include 
those performed not only by trust company subsidiaries that are State-
bartered, but also by any such subsidiaries that may operate as limited 
Purpose trust companies under national bank charters and that do not both 
accept demand deposits and make commercial loans. 
The definition of boundaries upon deposit-talcing activities by 
trust company subsidiaries of bank holding companies under § 225.4(a)(4) 
i s especially significant in the case of multi-State operations. Sec-
tion 3(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C, 1842(d)) prohibits 
the Board from approving any application under section 3 which will permit 
bank holding company to acquire, directly or indirectly, additional 
banks located outside of: the State in which the operations of its banking 
subsidiaries are principally conducted, unless any such acquisition is 
specifically authorized by the laws of the State in which such additional 

2509 
-2-. 
bank is located. In some cases, trust companies are chartered as banks, 
but intend to limit their operations to trust activities and not to en-
gage in commercial banking. The policy of section 3(d) would not apply 
t o holding company subsidiaries of this type. The proposed amendment 
would delineate, the scope of deposit-taking activities that could be 
cngaged in by trust company subsidiaries consistently with nonbank status 
under the Bartk Holding Company Act. 
Under the proposal, a trust company subsidiary that is not a 
bank" within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act would be per-
m:>tted to accept deposits that are generated out of funds received under 
trust instruments. It: would not: have authority to receive deposits 
Generated out of funds received in the capacity of agent or custodian, 
°xcept as expressly permitted in an exception for functions as agent or 
CUst°dian for an issuer of, or investor in, securities. The Board notes 
that the New York Banking Department has determined to permit qualified 
°ut~of-State bank holding companies to acquire limited purpose trust 
c°npanies in New York to furnish stock transfer and related services for 
institutional customers and to receive deposits incidental thereto. The 
Proposed amendment is intended to facilitate bank holding companies' 
requisitions of this type of limited purpose trust company. 
Both commercial banks and trust companies act as agents or 
cnstodiane for their customers. Deposit transactions incidental to 
aK<?ncy or custodian functions arc normally characteristic of commercial 
banking. However, the proposed deposit-taking activities incidental to 

u 2510 
-3-
payments upon or transfers of securities would appear to be properly 
incidental to a trust company business. 
The Comptroller of the Currency has granted a national bank 
charter to a trust company organized for the purpose of carrying on the 
general business of a commercial bank trust department and to engage in 
such activities as are necessary, incident or related to such business, 
^rust companies that do not engage in the business of making commercial. 
l°ans would not be "banks" within the meaning of section 2(c) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)), even though chartered as national 
banks. The proposed amendment would permit bank holding companies to ac-
quire under section 4(c)(8) of the Act federally chartered trust companies 
'ir a r e not "banks", and such trust companies would be governed by the 
same Regulation Y limitations on deposit-taking as would apply to State-
chartered trust companies acquired under that section. 
The proposed amended subparagraph (a)(4) of § 225.4 of Regula-
tion Y wou1d read as follows: 
§ 2 2 5 • 4 
Nonbanking activ 1 ties. 
(a) Activities closely related to banking or managing or 
^ t r o l j j ^ j o a ^ s 
The following activities have been determined 
b y * B o a r d to be so closely related to banking or managing or control-
ling banks as to he a proper incident thereto: 
* 
-k 
vV 
ic 
* 
"(4) performing or carrying on any one or more of the functions 
°r Activities that may be performed or carried on by a trust company (in-
^inoing activities of a fiduciary, agency, or custodian nature), in the 

2511 
-4-
manner authorized by federal or State law, so long as the institution 
does not both accept demand deposits and make commercial loans, and does 
not accept deposits other than (i) deposits that are generated from trust 
funds not currently invested and are properly secured to the extent re-
quired by law or (ii) deposits representing funds received for a special 
U s e 
the capacity of an agent or custodian for an issuer of, or investor 
securities, such as paying and dividend disbursing agent, securities 
bearing agent, and similar capacities, and not employed by or for the 
account of a customer in the manner of a general purpose checking account 
bearing interest 
" 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
interested parsons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
argument. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
O 
°ecretary> Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
• c. 2.0551, to be received not later than August 6, 1973. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 28, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester Ii, Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

H u l l 
Item No. 6 
F o r immediate release 
July?5, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced today 
a Proposed amendment to its Regulation X -- extension of credit on securities 
y brokers or dealers -- that would withdraw permission for brokers or dealers 
to 
sell certain kinds of investment contracts on credit. 
The programs in question involve sales of property together with a 
management contract. Examples include sales of shares in cattle 
r d s» citrus groves and a type of resort condominium where the purchaser buys 
h°tel room but agrees to rent it for part of each year, through centralized 
d e m e n t . 
Both the property purchase and the management services may in-
l V e c r e d i t in these arrangements. The Board has held that, In most cases, 
vhere fV» 
ne credit feature of such sales is an integral part of a "program" of 
estment, broker/dealers may not arrange such credit under Regulation T. 
However t-v. 
> tne Board has previously interpreted its rule as not applying where 
^ plT °P*-rty sale and the management contract we re separate items, and any 
credit i •nvolved is connected with the property and not with the contract. 
The proposed amendment, if adopted, would have the effect of negating 
interpretation, and would provide that credit extended on any part of 
such a Program would be deemed to have been extended on the whole program. 
This 
';°uld make it impermissible for securities brokers or dealers to arrange 
such 
Credit, although issuers of the investment program who are not brokers or 
derj x 
G r s C o u l d continue to sell the programs on credit. 
The Board invited comment, to be sent to the Secretary of the Board, 
U p t o August 1 0 , 
1 9 7 3 . 
A copy of the proposal is attached. 
- 0 -

2513 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. T] 
PART 220—CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
Credit in connection with investment contracts 
Pursuant to authority of Section 7 of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g) notice is hereby given that the Board of 
Governors proposes to add paragraph (1) to § 220.6 of Regulation T, 
"Credit by Brokers and Dealers" (12 CFR 220.6) to provide that credit 
extended on any part of an investment contract will be deemed to be 
extended on the whole security. The proposed new paragraph is set forth 
below: 
SECTION 220.6 — CERTAIN TECHNICAL DETAILS 
1c 
1t 
ie 
* 
* 
(1) Investment contract securities. Credit for the purpose 
of purchasing or carrying any part of an investment contract security (for 
example, the cattle ownership portion of a program to own and feed cattle, 
the condominium ownership part of a program to own and rent a unit 
through a rental pool) shall be deemed to be credit on the entire security. 
The purpose of the proposed amendment is to negate previous 
Board interpretations which stated that broker/dealers would not be 
deemed to be arranging credit .which they could not extend, as prohibited 
by § 220.7(a) of this Part, when, they sold investment contracts which 
included credit extended solely on the real estate or chattel part of 
the contract. 

-2-
2514 
If adopted, this amendment will provide uniform treatment, for 
credit purposes, of every security as an indivisible whole in a manner 
consistent with that followed by the Securities and Exchange Commission 
in its area of regulation. 
Interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, 
0 r arguments concerning this proposal. Any such material should be 
submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than 
August 10, 1973. Such material will be made available for inspection 
Q n d C0Pying upon request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's 
R u l e s ^ r d i n g Availability of Information. 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 
5» United States Code, and § 262.2(a) of the Rules of Procedure of the 
^ard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

• ; 2515 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/3/73 
FIRST INTERNATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) 
°f the voting shares of the successor by merger to The First National 
Bank of Harlingen, Harlingen, Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank 
i s to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the 
acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
acquisition of shares of the successor organization is treated herein 
as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant, presently the largest bank holding company in Texas, 
1/ 
2/ 
controls two banks 
with aggregate deposits of approximately $2.1 billion, 
^Presenting 6.1 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
pTn~addition to its two subsidiary banks, Applicant indirectly owns 
interests of between 5 and 25 per cent in 13 banks. Applicant states 
that it intends to acquire five of these banks, and to divest its minority 
nterest in each of the remaining eight banks. 
z j All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved through May 31, 1973. 

2 3 1 6 
-2-
State. Acquisition of Bank would increase Applicant's share of State 
deposits by 0.2 per cent and would not result in a significant increase 
in the concentration of banking resources in the State. 
Bank (approximately $62 million in deposits) is the second largest 
°f nine banks in the Brownsville-Harlingen-San Benito SMSA and accounts 
for 22.8 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the market. The 
first and third largest banks in the market account for 24.3 and 17.3 
Per cent of the commercial bank deposits, respectively. Consummation 
°f the proposal herein would constitute Applicant's initial entry into 
this market. 
Applicant's subsidiary closest to Bank is located in Houston, 
approximately 300 miles away, and there is no meaningful present com-
petition between Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank. In view of the 
distances involved and Texas' restrictive branching law, there appears 
to be little likelihood for the development of any significant amount of 
future competition between these institutions. Although Applicant could 
enter the market de novo or through the acquisition of a smaller bank, 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank is not regarded as having a substantially 
adverse effect on potential competition because size disparity among 
fche top banks is narrow enough so that Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
w°uld n o t r e s u l t i n Applicant's gaining a dominant share of the market's 
banking resources, nor would it appear to preclude the possibility of 
°ther holding companies entering the market. The Board concludes, there-
fore, that competitive considerations arp, consistent with approval of 
t h e application. 

-3-
2517 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f Bank, and of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks, are regarded 
as satisfactory; and Applicant intends to increase the equity capital of 
Bank upon consummation of the transaction. Considerations relating to 
the banking factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
Although the major banking needs of the residents in the are are being 
adequately served at the present time, the proposed affiliation is likely 
to result in expansion of the range of services presently offered by Bank. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community to 
b e s e r v ed are consistent with approval of the application. It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
teasoris summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
b e f c r e t h e thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
^ e r or <fc) later than three months after the effective date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
b y t h e Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
If 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Noting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
heehan and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
n e and Bucher. 

Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/3/73 
FIRST INTERNATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) 
o f the voting shares of the successor by merger to The First National 
Bank of Odessa, Odessa, Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is 
t 0 b e merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the 
acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
acquisition of shares of the successor organization is treated herein 
a S t h e Proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
® 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
t l 0 n i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant, presently the second largest bank holding company 
in T 
~ 
exas, controls two banks 
with aggregate deposits of approximately 
$1 7 k 
billion, 
representing 5.6 per cent of the total commercial bank 
^Posits in the State. Acquisition of Bank would increase Applicant's 
X n t e
n a d d i tion to its two subsidiary banks, Applicant indirectly owns 
thatr?StS ° f b e t w e e n 5 a n d 2 5 P e r cent in 13 banks. Applicant states 
inter 
i n t e n d s to acquire five of these banks, and to divest its minority 
2/ A 1* S5 i n e a ch of the remaining eight banks. 
form 
a n k l n g d ata are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect holding company 
at ions and acquisitions approved through May 31, 1973. 

2519 
-2-
share of State deposits by .17 per cent and would not result in a 
significant increase in the concentration of banking resources in 
the State. 
Bank (approximately $52 million in deposits) is the third 
largest of nine banks in the Midland-Odessa SMSA and accounts for 11.7 
per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the market. The first 
and second largest banks in the market account for 42 and 18 per cent 
of the commercial bank deposits, respectively. Consummation of the 
proposal herein would constitute Applicant's initial entry into the 
Midland-Odessa SMSA. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank closest to Bank is located in Dallas, 
more than 300 miles away. There is no meaningful present competition 
between Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank. Furthermore, in view 
the distances involved and Texas' restrictive branching law, there 
is little probability that any significant amount of competition would 
develop in the future between these institutions. Although Applicant could 
enter the market de novo or through the acquisition of a smaller bank, 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank is not regarded as having a substantially 
adverse effect on potential competition because Applicant's acquisition 
°f Bank would not result in Applicant's gaining a dominant share of the 
market's banking resources, nor would it appear to preclude the possibility 
of other holding companies entering the market. The Board concludes, 
therefore, that competitive considerations are consistent with approval 
o f the application. 

-3-
2520 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Bank, and of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks, are regarded 
as satisfactory; and Applicant intends to increase Bank's equity capital 
upon consummation of the transaction. Considerations relating to the 
banking factors are consistent with approval of the application. Although 
the major banking needs of the residents in the area are being adequately 
served at the present time, the proposed affiliation is likely to result 
in expansion of the range of services presently offered by Bank. Con-
siderations relating to the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served are consistent with approval of the application. It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
0rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Noting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
j^heehan and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
a a n e and Budh'er. 
