MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Federal Advisory Council 
February 2, 1973 

A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C., at 10:30 a.m. 
on Friday, February 2, 1973. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. English, Hauge, Dorrance, Fultz, 
Storrs, Bassett, Stults, Morey, Lind, 
Miller, Bond, and Rogers, Members of 
the Federal Advisory Council from the 
First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, 
Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, 
Eleventh, and Twelfth Federal Reserve 
Districts, respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
The following officers had been elected by the Federal Advisory 
Council to serve for the year 1973: 
President 
G. Morris Dorrance, Jr. 
Vice President 
Harry Hood Bassett 
Secretary 
Herbert V. Prochnow 
Assistant Secretary 
William J. Korsvik 
The following had been elected members of the Executive 
Committee to serve with the President (Mr. Dorrance) and Vice 

3 b ! $ 
2/2/73 
- 2 -
President (Mr. Bassett): James F. English, Jr., David H. Morey, and 
Morris F. Miller. 
The following persons, newly elected, were attending their 
first meeting as members of the Council: 
Gabriel Hauge, Chairman of the Board, Manufacturers 
Hanover Trust Company, New York, New York 
Clair E. Fultz, President, Huntington Bancshares, Inc., 
Columbus, Ohio 
Thomas I. Storrs, President, NCNB Corporation and North 
Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, North Carolina 
Allen P. Stults, Chairman of the Board, American 
National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois 
H. A. Rogers, President, Peoples National Bank of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington 
The meeting was prefaced by a discussion of the confidential 
nature of the proceedings, with stress on the confidentiality of comments 
made by members of the Board. It was brought out that, although a Council 
member might appropriately furnish the President of the Reserve Bank of 
his District with a copy of the document containing the Council's written 
answers to the agenda topics, only an oral report should be made to the 
Reserve Bank's Board of Directors, protecting confidentiality. It was 
understood also that no copies of the document should be given to com-
mercial bankers, although it was proper for Council members to consult 
with commercial bankers about the agenda topics in advance of a meeting, 
l n order to be able to report current opinions and trends in the banking 
community. 

383 
2/2/73 
- 3 -
1. In light of the strengthened outlook for economic 
activity, how do Council members view the pros-
pects for business and other borrowing demands 
through mid-1973? How much pressure are such 
demands expected to generate on bank and market 
interest rates? What, if any, effects on credit 
markets are anticipated from Federal budgetary 
proposals just submitted to Congress for the 
remainder of fiscal 1973 and fiscal 1974? 
The members of the Council believe that the accelerating pace 
of economic activity will be reflected in sharply rising business and 
other borrowing demands through mid-1973. A further step-up in 
inventory accumulation seems likely in view of present and anticipated 
sales volume. The strength of sales also indicates a rise in invest-
ment spending by business. Recent strong instalment borrowing demands 
by consumers will continue but not at the present rate of acceleration. 
All of these factors support the expectation of a strengthening 
in borrowing demands. Loan demand will be further strengthened as 
borrowers presently accommodated in the commercial paper market shift 
to commercial banks because of the relative attractiveness of bank rates. 
In these circumstances, market and bank interest rates will be 
under increasing upward pressure. Long-term rates are likely to be 
relatively stable except as heavy short-term requirements shift demands 
to the long-term capital markets. 
The improvement in the Federal budget outlook as a result of 
larger than anticipated tax receipts and the determined effort to limit 
expenditures will have a salutary effect on the credit markets, and thus 
tend to dissipate to some extent the upward pressure on interest rates. 
There was no further discussion of this topic. 
2. Have Council members observed any changes in the 
demand for commitments by bank customers and any 
changes in bank policies with regard to commitments? 
What usage of such commitments do banks anticipate 
this year? What sources of funds do banks expect 
to rely upon primarily to meet anticipated take-
downs of commitments? 
In general, the members of the Council have not observed any 
abnormal increase in the demand for commitments by bank customers. 

2/2/73 
- 4 -
While some banks are monitoring their commitments mere closely, policies 
have not changed substantially in recent months. As business activity 
accelerates, most bankers anticipate an increased usage of commitments 
this year. Despite the funds provided through the rise in corporate 
profits and increased depreciation charges, most bankers anticipate an 
increased usage of commitments as business expands. In general, banks 
expect to rely primarily upon purchased and/or borrowed funds they will 
bid for in the open and capital markets in order to meet commitment 
takedowns. 
Discussion indicated that "abnormal" was the key word in the 
Council's statement. By contrast, after the 1966 credit stringency 
many corporate financial officers had sought commitments, even with 
commitment fees, to insure that their companies would not again be shut 
off from needed credit. The present upward trend in commitments, how-
ever, appeared to reflect mainly an increase generated by the growth in 
the economy. 
Responses to questions by members of the Board did not indicate 
expectation of a significant reduction of investment portfolios in order 
to meet commitments. Governments and municipals, which might be expected 
to be the first portfolio recourse for funds, might be available in some 
banks but in others Governments at least were at an almost irreducible 
minimum. Some tax exempt securities had been purchased for the express 
purpose of later redemption to support increased loans, and did not 
involve customer relationships. It was suggested that the role of the 
investment portfolio had changed in recent years, shifting sharply from 
an accordian adjustment mechanism for loan accommodation to a function 
related primarily to profits. In this new setting, a smaller portfolio 

v-f* * 
U A' 
2/2/73 
- 5 -
was the order of the day. Shortening of portfolio maturities was a 
customary device for many banks as the need to meet commitments rose, 
and some shortening had taken place over the past year. One comment 
noted that many of the increases expected for 1973 were already on the 
books, and year-end 1973 figures probably would not be substantially 
greater than year-end 1972. 
Members of the Board posed questions regarding the sources of 
funds banks expected to use to meet anticipated increases in loans--to 
what extent growth in deposits would provide sufficient inflow and to 
what extent it would be necessary to purchase funds outside and to 
ration credit. Ensuing comments indicated that deposit growth was not 
likely to be sufficient; credit rationing and the sale of certificates 
of deposit were probable recourses mentioned. 
Mr. Hauge commented that his bank was not pressing for new 
commitments. However, even if no new customers came in, the bank already 
had commitments from a broad range of potential customers, and it probably 
would be necessary to acquire outside money. Since the buying price of 
money was rising, the necessary additions to loans outstanding would at 
least in part involve unattractive costs. 
Mr. Miller reported that banks in the mid-west agricultural 
regions were budgeting very little increase in sources of funds for 
the coming year, and were at present rationing agricultural credit. 

* > 
o 
O 4 O 
2/2/73 
- 6 -
Mr. Rogers indicated that greater rationing of credit was also 
the outlook in the Pacific Northwest. After the cutbacks in the aero-
space and forest industries, banks in that region had been flush with 
m o n ey, but loan demand was now surging and deposits were far from keeping 
pace. Typical customers were medium and small-sized businesses that 
were not able to avail themselves of the commercial paper market and 
had to rely on banks. 
It was observed by a member of the Board that there was a seeming 
inconsistency between the expectations of members of the Council with 
regard to the availability of funds to meet loan commitments and the view 
expressed in the Council's answer to a question later on the agenda, 
regarding the appropriateness of present monetary policy, that a reduced 
rate of growth in the monetary aggregates would be highly desirable even 
though it meant a rise in short-term interest rates. If the Board should 
follow that advice and take action to slow the growth of the monetary 
aggregates, the ability of banks to obtain additional funds in the market 
would surely be impaired. It would seem that in the face of slower 
growth in deposits and a more costly money market, there would be a 
stronger turning toward portfolio adjustments--not necessarily for 
individual banks, but for the banking system as a whole--than had been 
reflected in the discussion. 
Mr, Hauge observed that the question related to the consequences 
°f the classical application of monetary restraint upon banks. He 

383 
2/2/73 
- 7 -
thought banks were budgeting for somewhat slower growth in deposits 
than in 1972, but if such growth turned out to be substantially slower, 
banks would be hard pressed to meet their objectives and their adjust-
ments undoubtedly would prove costly to them. 
A member of the Board inquired whether, if banks generally 
expected a lower rate of growth in the aggregates, they were making 
preparations accordingly in order that whatever changes did occur in 
lending policy would take place gradually, rather than abruptly. 
Responses indicated that in its preparatory discussions the 
Council had questioned the degree to which last year's growth in the 
aggregates had merely supported the growth in the economy. The general 
view had been that the growth in aggregates was excessive, and that a 
slow-down was to be expected and should shape future planning. The 
situation was complicated by increased imperfection in the functioning 
of credit markets. 
Other comments dealt with the concern of the Council regarding 
the spill-over of loan demand from the commercial paper market stemming 
from restraint on bank lending rates imposed by the Committee on Interest 
and Dividends. Although there were functional reasons why banks should 
welcome the recapture of that business, they would prefer to do so in 
circumstances where their buying and selling prices of funds were in 
better balance. 

9 
2/2/73 
- 8 -
President Dorrance said he detected a feeling that the Federal 
Reserve would approach monetary policy differently if conditions similar 
to those of the 1966 and 1969 credit stringencies recurred. The approach 
might not be to limit bank credit directly but to let the market provide 
the limiting factor. 
A member of the Board referred to the discussion at a recent 
meeting with the Council regarding bullet loans, and inquired whether 
such practices had been spreading and whether current bank lending policy 
was showing any tightening trend. 
Responses indicated that although some banks were monitoring 
loans more closely, there had not been a significant change in policy. 
Bullet loans had diminished, and cap loans, which had sprung into being 
at a rather poor time, had experienced a dramatic drop in significance. 
3. The Board would appreciate having the Council's 
comments regarding its recommendation to broaden 
the bankers' acceptance market. If the use of 
working capital acceptances were to become wide-
spread, would any special safeguards be needed 
to maintain the soundness of bank assets? Does 
the Council foresee any potential developments 
which might tend to complicate the task of con-
trolling overall bank credit? 
The Federal Advisory Council approves the recommendations to 
broaden the bankers' acceptance market as expressed in the attached 
memorandum]./ and hopes that the supervisory authorities will encourage 
the development of this money market instrument. The Council supports 
the position stated therein that the supervisory authorities have 
1/ A copy of the memorandum is attached to these minutes. 

383 
2/2/73 
- 9 -
adequate powers to maintain the soundness of bank assets and control 
over bank credit. 
Comments by members of the Council emphasized the usefulness 
of finance bills (the term now used for the instrument earlier called 
negotiable time drafts, ineligible acceptances, marketable time drafts, 
working capital acceptances, etc.) in providing direct access to the 
money market for corporate customers that were not of sufficient size 
to issue commercial paper successfully. The instrument had been found 
especially useful in certain kinds of agricultural financing. From the 
standpoint of banks, finance bills provided a safety valve through which 
they could maintain relationships with customers whose needs for funds 
could not be satisfied currently from bank resources. Moreover, to the 
extent that finance bills were held in bank portfolios, they would be 
more liquid than standard loans. 
The periods of credit stringency in the late 1960's had stimulated 
the use of finance bills. However, the growth of this financing device 
had been slow, partly because some borrowers were reluctant to have their 
names and their financing needs known in the market place (a reluctance 
that seemed to be diminishing in some areas), and partly because of ques-
tions with respect to legal aspects. Even if the Board should give the 
green light as far as limitations on the use of finance bills were con-
cerned, it seemed doubtful that their volume or rate of growth would 
become a problem for monetary control. If the Board refrained from 

... 
O / f 
2/2/73 
-10-
imposing reserve requirements and ceiling rates of interest on these 
instruments, their development for more widespread, constructive use 
would be aided. A present position that such restrictions need not 
apply would not mean surrender of a later decision to impose them. 
From the supervisory point of view, it would seem that encouragement 
of the use of finance bills would enlarge the scope of credit trans-
actions subject to surveillance, by contrast to commercial paper, which 
fell outside that scope. 
One member of the Board inquired why it should be thought that 
these instruments should not follow the principle that all types of 
liabilities that generate funds should be subject to reserve require-
ments. In reply it was indicated that reserve requirements would so 
severely burden the instrument that it would not develop as a viable 
financing alternative. Mr. Storrs took the position that finance bills 
do not create funds, but merely guarantee creditworthiness in order to 
improve the customer's access to the money market. He did not believe 
there was any more reason to impose reserve requirements against finance 
bills than against letters of credit. 
Another member of the Board spoke of the early attitude of 
Congress that banks should lend money but not credit. Although the use 
of bankers' acceptances had provided an exception to that rule, they 
bad been hedged by legal limitations. In his view, the present advocacy 
of exempting finance bills from reserve requirements, interest rate 

2/2/73 
-11-
ceilings, and other limitations was based upon lawyers' opinions that, 
while advanced in good faith, rested upon regulatory interpretations 
the validity of which was subject to question. 
At the conclusion of the discussion of this topic it was 
understood that the Board would study the Council's recommendation. 
4. How do Council members assess the apparent 
growing use of bank letters of credit, includ-
ing letters issued to back commercial paper 
domestically and various types of letters 
issued to guarantee payments in international 
trade? How widespread has such use become and 
what attitude do Council members believe the 
supervisory authorities should adopt with 
regard to these letters? 
The members of the Council are not aware that bank letters of 
credit issued to back commercial paper domestically and to guarantee 
payments in international trade have grown significantly or constitute 
a problem. Some major banks have not issued any letters of credit to 
back commercial paper sold in the U.S. market. The monetary authorities 
through the bank examining function, probably should monitor the totals 
and the risks assumed in relation to the capital structure of each bank. 
However, the general development of the use of this instrument should 
not be discoxiraged as it provides regional borrowers with access to the 
capital markets. 
Discussion indicated that, although a somewhat clumsy device 
in the market place, letters of credit served a purpose in facilitating 
access by smaller customers to credit sources. Negative responses were 
made to a question whether banks were issuing letters of credit without 
adequate investigation of creditworthiness; thorough analyses were made, 
and it was not likely that the banking community would be misled through 
the use of this instrument. 

383 
2/2/73 
-12-
5. What suggestions do Council members have 
that they believe might improve the 
attractiveness of membership in the 
Federal Reserve System? 
The members of the Council believe that the attractiveness of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System could be improved by such 
measures as greater sensitivity to local conditions, more uniform and 
simplified administration of the discount window, and greater respon-
siveness and flexibility in bank regulation. However, these and other 
similar measures are not likely to overcome the costs resulting from 
the differences in level and nature (in some instances quite wide) of 
reserve requirements imposed by the Federal Reserve and those prevailing 
in the States. Assuming that broadened membership is essential to the 
effective functioning of the System, the only way to meet the problem 
is to make membership mandatory for all commercial banks. 
Mr. English, elaborating upon the reference to the need for 
greater responsiveness and flexibility in bank regulation, reported some 
feeling among New England bankers that the regional-national structure 
of the System, and the fact that it was headed by a Board rather than a 
single administrator, sometimes resulted in complications and delays. 
Mr. Hauge mentioned unequal impacts upon different banks of the recent 
changes in check collection rules under Regulation J as an illustration 
of lack of sufficient administrative flexibility. In response to a 
comment by a member of the Board that operation of regional check pro-
cessing centers provided an offset to the rigors of the new check 
collection rules, Mr. Storrs observed that there had always been a 
feeling on the part of large banks that the System competed with their 
correspondent services in check collection. He added that, if the 
Board really believed in the need to bring all, or at least all of the larger, 

2/2/73 
-13-
commercia1 banks into the System, it should push for legislation, 
because the objective was not likely to be accomplished through minor 
concessions. Mr. Bond reported some indications that banks found 
correspondents more solicitous in dealing with their problems than 
was the more buiness-like Fed. Since banks had to maintain balances 
with their correspondents in any event to support the services of the 
latter, Federal Reserve reserve requirements were a net addition to 
costs. Mr. Rogers spoke of the desirability of greater ease of access 
to the discount window as especially important in the Pacific Northwest, 
which had suffered wide fluctuations in loan demand when coming out of 
a recession that had hit that area with greater force than most of the 
rest of the country. Mr. Miller praised the efforts of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City to be responsive to the needs of its region, 
including more liberal discount window administration for agricultural 
credit needs than might prevail in other Districts. It would be helpful 
if the Reserve Bank would undertake more intensive research to provide 
more refined agricultural statistics than were available from the 
Department of Agriculture. 
6. The Board would like to have the Council's 
comments on the proposed change in Regulation A 
relating to seasonal borrowing at the Discount 
Window. 
The members of the Council welcome the proposed change in 
Regulation A relating to seasonal borrowing at the Discount Window. 
The Council would favor the implementation of the proposals of the 
Steering Committee of the System under Governor Mitchell as a step 

2/2/73 
-14-
forward in the redesign of the Discount Window. The establishment of 
the concept of the basic borrowing privilege might, in fact, be an 
inducement to smaller banks to join the Federal Reserve System. 
There was no further discussion of this topic. 
7. What are the Council's views with regard to 
monetary and credit policy under present 
circumstances? 
In view of the present strength of the economy the Council 
believes a more moderate rate of growth of the monetary aggregates 
than we experienced in 1972 is appropriate for the period ahead. 
Apparent efforts to lessen the strong upward pressure on short-term 
rates resulted in a larger growth in the monetary and credit aggre-
gates than business conditions warranted. 
The Administration's intention to curb the rise in expenditures 
and thus reduce somewhat the size of the Federal budget deficit will 
be helpful in limiting growing inflationary pressures. To the extent 
that the Administration is successful in this effort, the burden on 
the monetary authorities will be lessened somewhat. A reduced rate 
of growth in the monetary aggregates, however, would be highly desir-
able even though it means a rise in short-term interest rates. 
Discussion reiterated the view of the Council that the rate of 
growth in the monetary aggregates during 1972 had been substantial and its 
continuation might give rise to inflationary pressures in the economy. 
Comments by members of the Board noted the confusion that weekly and 
monthly figures could engender; an average of growth rates for at least 
several months might avoid misinterpretation of the extremes. Also, 
while the rate of growth in 1972 had been rapid, it had to be viewed in 
the context of a strong rate of growth in the nation's physical produc-
tion and its dollar volume. 
8. The Council would appreciate the opportunity 
of discussing with the Board of Governors 

3 
r;» y 
2/2/73 
-15-
recent developments which have tended to 
alter the competitive relationship between 
banks and thrift institutions. This has 
included the broadened scope of operations 
permitted by the mutual savings banks and 
the savings and loan associations including 
their participation in the payments mechanism. 
This specific topic is related to the whole 
question of the Hunt Commission and whether 
or not there should be Federal legislation 
introduced into this session of the Congress. 
The Council on previous occasions has discussed with the Board 
the adverse consequences of the changing competitive relationships 
between banks and thrift institutions. These recent developments are 
intensifying the problem and are making it more imperative that a com-
prehensive program be prepared at the Federal level. It should include 
a number of the proposals of the report of the Hunt Commission. In the 
interim some measures might be initiated to curb the growth of any 
further imbalances in our financial structure. 
Mr. English commented that since the Council's earlier discus-
sions with the Board regarding this subject, then in the context of 
tremendous pressures on State legislatures to grant checking account 
privileges to thrift institutions, the problem had taken a new and 
acute turn with the offering of NOW accounts (involving the use of 
negotiable orders of withdrawal) by mutual savings banks in Massachusetts 
and New Hampshire. The accounts in essence were demand deposits, subject 
to check, on which interest was paid. The development was moving rapidly 
and threatened to spread into other northeastern States. 
There were three important issues, Mr. English continued, the 
first of which was equity. If through a slippage in the law mutual 
institutions were able to offer checking account privileges on interest-
bearing accounts, commercial banks, especially smaller ones, were faced 

383 
2/2/73 
-16-
with a serious competitive problem. The second issue was the creation 
of a new class of demand deposits outside the control of the Federal 
Reserve, and the third was the creation of a breach in the historical 
separation of demand and time deposits. The speed of developments at 
the State level was precluding an opportunity for adequate analysis and 
solution of the problem at the national level. Banks in the northeast, 
even recognizing the jurisdictional difficulties, would like to see 
Federal bank supervisors take some action to hold the new practices in 
abeyance, even at the expense of litigation. Also, both supervisors 
and banks concerned should push for Federal legislation that would 
provide for an orderly and equitable solution. Banks were generally 
reconciled to the fact that checking account and other privileges for 
thrift institutions were written into the future, but the granting of 
such privileges should be accompanied by equity in terms of taxation, 
reserve requirements, and ceiling rates of interest. 
In response to a question regarding what specific action the 
Board should take, Mr. English suggested that it rule that commercial 
banks could not clear negotiable orders of withdrawal through Federal 
Reserve facilities; that should have the effect of slowing down the 
use of those instruments. Ensuing comments brought out that there was 
a possible legal obstacle to that course, in that somewhat similar 
instruments had been accepted for clearance for a long time. It was 
observed that if mutual savings banks considered the operation of NOW 

2/2/73 
- 1 7 -
accounts highly profitable, they would certainly devise alternative 
arrangements to clear the NOW instruments. A suggestion was made by 
a member of the Board for adjustments to Federal legislation through 
which it might be possible to achieve equal treatment of banks and 
thrift institutions with respect to interest rate ceilings. In the 
face of the probability that thrift institutions would become more 
active in seeking additional pox^ers, it would seem that the best posture 
for commercial banks would be to press for equal rights and treatment. 
Given equity with respect to taxes, reserve requirements, and interest 
rates, commercial banks would still have advantages in the broader scope 
of services they could offer. 
Other discussion included a comment by Mr. Hauge that in New 
York State the banking authorities have proposed legislation that would 
permit thrift institutions to make consumer loans up to 5 per cent of 
their assets, and that it was believed that the 10 large mutual savings 
banks were ready to proceed. This proposed extension of their powers 
has not been accompanied by any quid pro quo in increased restrictions. 
Mr. Rogers reported that events on the West Coast were moving in the 
same direction, with legislation pending that would permit thrift insti-
tutions to have checking accounts, consumer loans, and possibly to issue 
commercial paper. 
In response to a request for comment on the possibility of 
increasing interest rate ceilings in Massachusetts, Mr. English expressed 
the view that it would be preferable to reduce ceilings for savings banks 

a a r i 
2/2/73 
-18-
to zero, and then to require that if they offered NOW accounts they 
be limited on their other accounts to the ceilings applicable to 
commercial banks. He added that it would be unfortunate if any less-
than-satisfactory solution for the Massachusetts situation should 
become the key for remedial measures for other northeastern States and 
the nation. 
giving thought to a number of possibilities, including some of the 
measures the Council had suggested, and was continuing its active consid-
eration of the problem. 
Chairman Burns assured the Council that the Board had been 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on May 3-4, 1973. 
The meeting then adjourned 

386 
THE FEDERAL ADVISORY COUNCIL RECOMMENDATION 
TO BROADEN THE BANKERS' ACCEPTANCE MARKET 
The Federal Advisory Council recommends that the Federal Reserve Board 
give express recognition to the desirability of a broader bankers' 
acceptance market incorporating not only bankers' acceptances falling 
within the limited scope of Sections 13 and 14 of the Federal Reserve 
Act but also other bankers' acceptances, referred to hereafter as 
"finance bills". Finance bills are an alternative to commercial paper 
and serve a similar purpose. Development of a viable market for this 
traditional but heretofore neglected financing vehicle would enable 
the banking system to regain its historic position in financing 
commercial needs. Specifically, the Council recommends that the Board 
take the following action: 
1. Recognize by public pronouncement the usefulness of 
finance bills as a necessary, efficient and prudent instrument for 
financing commercial needs alongside short-term bank advances and open-
market commercial paper. 
2. In order to enhance the instrument's marketability, 
accept the term "finance bill" as an appropriate name for the instrument, 
thus distinguishing it from the so-called "eligible" acceptance. 
3. Confirm the ruling and opinions previously expressed that 
finance bills are not subject to the limitations of Section 13 of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
She basic economic rationale for supporting a market for finance bills 
to provide greater access to open-market credit for creditworthy 
businesses. At the present time, only the very largest firms are able 
to sell paper in the open market while medium-size and small firms are 
excluded in fact. Finance bills would allow creditworthy business firms, 
regardless of size, to raise funds in the open market. This provision 
of uniform access to open-market credit is particularly important for 
the continued efficient allocation of scarce financial resources during 
Periods of financial stringency. Experience has shown that a restrictive 
monetary policy has an unequal impact on different size firms. Only the 
largest and best known corporations have access to the commercial paper 
market. Medium-sized and small firms bear the full brunt of tight 
money because of the market's unfamiliarity with their credit standing. 
As a means of mobilizing open-market credit, finance bills have several 
important advantages. First, a bank's act of accepting customers 
bills is governed by the application of presently existing and widely 
recognized banking standards which require that only creditworthy firms 
be financed in this manner. Second, bank supervisory authorities, in 
the course of their regular examination of bank credit extension, are 
adequately providing at present the necessary ongoing supervision 
assuring that particular creditu are appropriately financed through 

-2-
finanee bills and that this important financing vehicle is not being 
abused. In contrast, the issuance of commercial paper remains largely 
unsupervised both with regard to credit quality and to the underlying 
transaction. In the absence of an effective finance bill market, the 
pressures for a useful financing vehicle to meet the needs of lesser 
known customers have given rise to various roundabout devices, such as 
the bank letter of credit issued for the benefit of holders of commercial 
paper. By comparison, the finance bill is peculiarly adapted to meet 
the purpose and falls within the established patterns of banking 
practices. It is a specific instrument designed for the broad range of 
bank customers requiring credit to finance commercial needs. 
After careful study of present banking law and regulations, the Council 
concludes that: (1) banks have the power to issue finance bills, 
(2) finance bills are not subject to the overall limitation as to the 
total amount of "eligible" acceptances outstanding, and (3) any limits 
on single-customer liability arising out of finance bills outstanding on 
the part of any bank are to be determined under the National Bank Act 
or the banking laws of the respective states. While no changes in 
Present law or regulations are believed to be required for the proper 
functioning of a finance bill market, it is necessary to publicise this 
legal framework in order to assure the instruments' ready public 
acceptance on the part of banks, dealers and investors. 
The establishment of a finance bill market will be an important step 
in assuring the financing of the commercial needs of the whole spectrum 
of American business in a manner which is both prudent and efficient. 
Without the speedy development of a finance bill market, it ie inevitable 
that there will be a further erosion in the segment of the financial 
markets served by supervised lenders. The council believes that a 
finance bill market can and should be established as a superior 
supplement and prudent alternative to the commercial paper market for 
the benefit of the general business community. 
