MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Federal Advisory Council 
May 4, 1973 

A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D.C., at 11:00 a.m. 
on Friday, May 4, 1973. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, ChairmanJL/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Bueher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. English, Hauge, Dorrance, Fultz, 
Storrs, Bassett, Morey, Lind, Miller, 
Bond, and Rogers, Members of the 
Federal Advisory Council from the 
First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, 
Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, 
and Twelfth Federal Reserve Districts, 
respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
President Dorrance spoke of the Council's concern with respect 
to problems relating to capitalization of bank holding companies. Sim-
plistic answers would not be sufficient; the complexities of the problems 
required in-depth exploration. He suggested that the Council's resources 
might be used effectively by the Board to assist in that exploration. 
Governors Daane and Bucher expressed gratification at the Council's 
offer, and urged that it be pursued with Chairman Burns, who shared the 
1/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1537 
5/4/73 
-2-
Board's concern regarding the question of bank holding company 
capitalization. 
1. What changes, if any, in general business 
sentiment have Council members observed 
since the beginning of the year? 
The members of the Council believe that general business 
sentiment has strengthened substantially since the beginning of the 
year, reflecting the startling advance in GNP in the first quarter. 
However, there is a growing uneasiness emerging among businessmen. 
At the beginning of the year businessmen generally expected a period 
of orderly economic expansion with some, but not severe, price pres-
sures in the first half of the year. Since then they have been dis-
turbed by the exceedingly rapid advance in economic activity, sharply 
rising prices, and production bottlenecks. Uncertainty about the 
outlook for the economy over the rest of the year has increased. 
Businessmen find themselves caught in the position of wanting to 
protect themselves against a possible downturn in economic activity 
while at the same time being concerned about disruptions, shortages, 
and rising prices should the current expansion continue. This 
uncertainty may be one of the factors in the lack-luster performance 
of the equity markets. 
In response to an observation that statistics so far did not 
reflect the uneasiness regarding the business outlook of which the 
Council spoke, President Dorrance indicated that among Council members 
there were disparate views regarding the imminence of a slowdown in 
economic activity. For example, there was discussion of problems aris-
ing from inability to build inventories because sales were so strong. 
One member commented that businesses appeared to be gearing to break 
supply problems; it was possible that in another two quarters or so 
inventories might have caught up and it would be necessary for businesses 
to be watchful of possible over-stocking. Other comments brought out 

v 1538 
5/4/73 
-3-
that people seemed to be spending their tax refunds for major purchases 
such as automobiles and furniture and the impact of refunds would prob-
ably continue for some weeks or months. 
2. What evidence or impression do Council 
members have with regard to the impact 
of the devaluation of the dollar and sub-
sequent developments in foreign exchange 
markets on domestic businessmen involved 
in foreign trade or competing with foreign 
firms? 
The members of the Council have the impression that business-
men involved in foreign trade or competing with foreign firms have been 
encouraged by the devaluation of the dollar and subsequent developments 
in the foreign exchange markets. 
However, the trade figures do not yet reflect the extent of 
the improvement anticipated, which is likely to be larger than that 
following the first devaluation of the dollar. 
Some U.S. manufacturers who heretofore had purchased goods 
abroad from an affiliated or other source are now reappraising that 
action and in some instances are planning expanded production in this 
country to replace the foreign source. It has been reported that prices 
of steel imports on the West Coast from Japan are now higher than a year 
or so ago. As a consequence, West Coast steel buyers report that such 
imports no longer have a competitive price edge over U.S. produced steel. 
Because of the strong demand in the domestic markets, U.S. 
businessmen are tending to go slow in their efforts to develop the 
international markets. In addition, many smaller manufacturers are 
not aware of the large profitable markets abroad, suggesting that a 
renewed export expansion effort would be appropriate. 
The devaluation does present some vital questions on the 
cost of increasing oil imports, which hopefully may be partially offset 
by rising exports. 
A question was posed whether businessmen might find it difficult 
to conduct international operations under a system involving some foreign 

1539 
5/4/73 
-4-
currencies with floating exchange rates and others with fixed parities. 
Responding comments indicated that while businessmen were aware of the 
need to be more alert, there had been no lessening of business oppor-
tunities under floating rates. The adjustment probably had been 
facilitated by the fact that all of the major economies were on the 
upbeat. Also, there might be a tendency to underestimate the sophis-
tication of management decision-making in large corporations; they 
were structured to handle a large range of variables, of which the 
current exchange rate complexities were just one; and such firms were 
undoubtedly making provisions in their reserves to offset possible 
future losses. 
3. How does the Council appraise the outlook for 
general economic activity, prices, and wages 
over the balance of the year? In particular, 
what are businessmen contacts reporting with 
regard to production bottlenecks, shortages 
of specific products, delivery schedules, 
and availability of workers around the 
country? 
The members of the Council believe that the economy will 
continue strong through the balance of 1973, although not at the exces-
sive growth rate of the first quarter. Price inflation will continue 
to be one of the most important economic problems for the balance of 
the year. 
Labor leaders thus far have been relatively restrained in 
their statements and in their demands, and recent wage settlements have 
not generally been excessive. However, if the rate of consumer price 
inflation is not reduced, particularly food prices, pressure from union 
membership may force union leaders to insist upon larger first-year 
wage settlements, leading to the threat of both renewed cost-push 
inflation and more strikes. 

1540 
5/4/73 
-5-
Several members of the Council reported that their contacts 
with businessmen indicated that an increasing number of them were 
experiencing production bottlenecks, shortages of a wide range of 
products, including metals, textiles, hides, lumber, paper, and indus-
trial chemicals, lengthening delivery schedules, and a shortage of 
skilled workers in certain areas. All are characteristic of a booming 
economy that is approaching capacity operations. 
Several members of the Council cited union negotiations in their 
Districts to illustrate the relatively modest settlements being sought 
by labor, sometimes being directed toward fringe benefits and pensions 
rather than primarily toward wages. President Dorrance indicated that 
at its meeting yesterday the Council had exchanged views regarding what 
impact on prices might arise from recent floods on the Mississippi 
River and elsewhere. There had been some sentiment that the impact 
of the floods on grain and livestock prices could be over-emphasized; 
there were many other influences adding pressure to prices. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
(Note: The following three agenda topics and the Council's 
answers to them were discussed as a group.) 
4. The Board would appreciate having the Council's 
assessment of the underlying strength of bank 
loan demand, aside from the shift of borrow-
ing from the commercial paper market and 
borrowing which may temporarily have been 
associated with the international movement 
of dollars. What are the major uses being 
made of the borrowed funds? To what extent 
do business borrowings represent drawing on 
existing bank loan commitments and to what 
extent are the loans newly negotiated? 
What is the outlook for business and other 
loan demands over the months ahead? 

5/4/73 
-6-
The membersof the Council report an extraordinarily strong 
demand for bank loans from borrowing customers. In a large measure, 
the strong demand for bank loans reflects the credit demands of a 
booming economy. Businessmen who borrow report that the funds are 
required primarily for general working capital purposes. In addition, 
there is a strong demand to finance grain, reflecting high prices and 
the shortage of box cars. 
In the past few months, these business borrowings have 
represented primarily drawings on existing loan commitments, although 
a portion of the increase reflects newly-negotiated credits to exist-
ing customers who have not previously had commitments. 
The strength of economic activity currently and the momentum 
suggest a continued strong loan demand in the months ahead. 
5. Have Council members observed any significant 
changes in credit standards and lending terms 
by bank and other institutional lenders this 
year? 
In particular, do banks appear to be 
re-evaluating their willingness to make new 
loan commitments? What has been the reaction 
among banks to the April 6 letter on loan 
commitments sent by the Federal regulatory 
agencies to banks with deposits in excess of 
$100 million? 
The members of the Council have observed changes in credit 
standards and lending terms by banks and other institutional lenders 
this year. Individual banks, depending on their loan, deposit, and 
purchased money mix, are pursuing more conservative lending practices 
and are re-evaluating their willingness to make new loan commitments. 
Some of the special lending terms involving "interest rate caps," 
"bullet maturities," and so forth, that came into vogue last year 
have pretty well disappeared. 
The members of the Council believe that the April 6 letter 
on loan commitments sent to the large banks was timely and served a 
useful purpose. 
8. What are the Council's views on monetary and 
credit policy under current circumstances? 
If further restraining actions by the Federal 
Reserve should prove to be desirable, what 
actions and measures would members of the 

5/4/73 
-7-
Council recommend as being most effective 
for curbing growth in the monetary aggre-
gates, including bank credit? 
The members of the Council believe that in view of the 
prevailing economic boom, the reduced rate of growth of the monetary 
aggregates since December, together with the rise in rates, has been 
highly desirable. 
Monetary and credit policy should continue in the same 
general posture of recent months. If further restraining actions by 
the Federal Reserve should prove to be desirable, such action and 
measures should be directed to the behavior of the demand deposit 
component of M, and the reserve base. Fluctuations in bank credit 
resulting from the disequilibrium in interest rates should be expected 
and not used as a basis for changes in monetary policy. 
In the Council's judgment, the implementation of such policies 
implies the use of the traditional instruments of monetary restraint. 
Comments by Council members indicated that there had been 
aggressive response in some Districts to lending opportunities, while 
in other Districts loans were more typically limited to existing com-
mitments. A meaningful response to the Board's questions required an 
understanding of what was meant by commitments; the Council had the 
impression that the questions contemplated fee-paid commitments, but 
banks generally felt they also had to meet requests from customers who 
had dealt with them for a long time even though they had no formal 
written commitments. One member of the Council commented that the 
effort to increase loan volume that had been seen six months ago had 
abated in his District. There had been concern among bankers there 
regarding the volume of commitments even before receipt of the super-
visory letter cautioning large banks to be watchful of their loan 

1543 
5/4/73 
-8-
commitments. Other comments also suggested that many bankers were 
restricting their lending activity and the degree of restraint was 
becoming stronger. 
In response to a question regarding the instructions that banks 
were giving their loan officers regarding kinds of credit to avoid or 
minimize, Mr. Storrs emphasized that a significant number of commercial 
banks had not tightened their loan policies in keeping xd-th the firm-
ing of monetary policy. His own bank had issued instructions some weeks 
ago that loans were not to be made for speculative purposes, for acqui-
sitions, or as a means of acquiring new business customers, and review 
procedures had been set up to insure adherence to the instructions. 
In his view, a great deal of nonprice rationing, centering on the pur-
pose of loans, would be needed if the expansion of bank loans and the 
money supply was to be curbed. 
Ensuing comments indicated that it was a widespread practice 
for banks to have loan review committees, either at middle or senior 
level. A member of the Board raised a question whether lending officers, 
who had been trained to go out and drum up business, could reverse their 
direction and decline loan opportunities that fell within the categories 
they now had instructions to reject or minimize. Members of the Council 
concurred that it was not easy to get loan officers who had been aggres-
sively seeking business in recent years to change their attitudes; 
however, efforts were being made to make them understand the rationale 

1544 
5/4/73 
-9-
for restrictions. Banks were practicing a degree of restraint in their 
lending activities, if not universally at least to a major extent. It 
was understood that the Board would welcome letters from members of 
the Council indicating what measures their banks were taking to curb 
loan expansion. 
Chairman Burns inquired whether the Council members had any 
suggestions as to particular steps the Federal Reserve might take, that 
would be effective and yet not disruptive to the banking system, if it 
should become necessary to move against the expansion of business loans. 
He asked whether it might be helpful, for example, if Reserve Bank 
Presidents were to hold meetings with leading bankers to discuss the 
need for limitations on the availability of credit. The Presidents 
would not set specific goals for individual banks, but would make it 
clear that in the absence of effective limitation by banks themselves, 
the Federal Reserve might have to apply greater pressure to the entire 
banking system. 
Comments by members of the Council indicated that there was 
value in such direct communication by Reserve Bank Presidents. Such 
conversations in the past had been taken very seriously by member banks. 
The competitive forces that affected all banks sometimes constrained 
managements from doing what they knew should be done, and a personal 
admonition by a Reserve Bank President to leading bankers might be a 
healthful thing. Reference was made to a letter sent during the 1966 

V5M 
5/4/73 
-10-
credit stringency to suggest types of loans that should be discouraged; 
one member suggested that such a letter might be more effective than a 
meeting, because it would reach every member bank. Also, as its con-
tents became known to borrowers, they might refrain from applying for 
the kinds of loans deemed undesirable. A letter of that nature sent 
under current circumstances might have the same kind of salutary effect 
as had the April 6 supervisory letter regarding loan commitments. 
Chairman Burns suggested that the members of the Council assume 
that a letter similar to the one sent in 1966 was to be sent to banks 
(although he would have to review that experience carefully before con-
cluding that another letter should be sent), and communicate their 
suggestions regarding what should be included. 
Mr. Hauge observed that types of loans to be viewed with 
disfavor might include international loans of the kinds some banks 
had recently made, on abnormally liberal terms. 
Governor Bucher inquired whether it was possible to refuse 
takedowns under outstanding unconditional commitments if the money was 
to be used for speculative purposes; he had recently talked with the 
President of a large bank faced with such a situation, who had expressed 
inability to monitor the purpose of the loan under such circumstances. 
Responses by members of the Council expressed agreement that, unless 
the contractual arrangement with the customer reserved to the bank the 
right to disapprove the purpose of a takedown, it was difficult to 

f _ 1 5 1 G 
5/4/73 
-11-
impose conditions. If the commitment had been in effect for a number 
of years and there was a long record of not using the money for specu-
lative purposes, it was especially difficult to question takedowns. 
One member of the Council indicated that his bank had examined its 
loan portfolio to see if it contained evidence of arbitrage activity, 
with the intention, if any takedowns for that purpose were found, of 
communicating the bank's objection forcefully to the borrower. 
With reference to current monetary policy, President Dorrance 
expressed concern about the shortening of the CD portfolio into the 
30-89 day area. He thought the price mechanism was now and would con-
tinue to exercise restraint, and the opportunity to balance the CD 
portfolio into a better spread of maturities should be taken. He did 
not like to see Regulation Q acting as a mechanism to restrain lending. 
In response to a question whether additional flexibility with respect 
to interest rates on CD's might not reduce restraint rather than rein-
force it, he expressed the view that the market mechanism would accomplish 
the reinforcement. 
Mr. Storrs observed that he had a minority report to make 
regarding the appropriateness of current monetary policy. In his view, 
some additional restraint was needed. He suggested that the Board might 
improve the banking system's ability to respond to pressure by removing 
Regulation Q ceilings, as Mr. Dorrance had suggested, and by removing 
the reserve requirement on Euro-dollar borrowings. 

1547 
5/4/73 
-12-
A question by a member of the Board whether the Council found 
that rising interest rates were affecting loan demand brought a response 
that some loan activity had been postponed. 
Chairman Burns inquired whether there was any validity in the 
view held by some bankers and economists that at least the larger banks 
were operating on a cost-plus principle—when the cost of their funds 
went up, they would charge more for lending them but would do very 
little to ration credit. It seemed to him that the policies proposed 
by Council members supported that theory. 
A Council member expressed the view that the cost-plus theory 
would hold if there were no other restraints on the bank balance sheet, 
but responsible bank management would keep in mind that funds obtained 
in the market had to be refunded when they became due. Chairman Burns 
remarked that the phrase "responsible bank management" was the key; 
the question was whether, with some banks forcing the competitive pace, 
bank managements would do enough to restrict the availability of credit. 
Mr. Fultz said that it seemed to him that two principles were 
involved. One was the need for restraint by the banking industry in 
establishing new commitments, and Council members were saying that they 
wanted to support that objective in every way possible. The second, 
the lifting of Regulation Q ceilings on CD's of longer maturities, was 
related to the ability of banks to meet previous and long-standing 
commitments. He did not believe there was any conflict between the two. 

1548 
5/4/73 
-13-
Mr. Hauge expressed the view that price did not serve the 
function it once did, and therefore it came down to the question of 
who was going to ration credit. In the past, it had been understood 
that the central bank had a pool of credit and it was up to the indi-
vidual banks to apportion it. That might not hold true now, with the 
use of price in bank lending largely demobilized. 
Chairman Burns said he thought credit rationing ought to be 
done by the banks, but a new banking world had emerged. Formerly, in 
a period of monetary restraint banks focused on readjusting their 
portfolios of assets, but now they managed their liabilities instead. 
If there was an increased demand for credit, they would pay the price 
necessary to raise the funds to meet that demand. Therefore, he 
believed that the function of price was greater than ever. 
Mr. Hauge indicated that some borrowers expected to derive so 
much benefit from borrowed money that the price of the loan was irrele-
vant. He thought the question in the minds of bankers was how much 
the central bank would make available, and how they could rationalize 
their role in allocating what was available. 
Chairman Burns observed that banks now bid for money to acquire 
funds to meet loan demands, whereas formerly they sold Governments or 
municipals. Lifting the Regulation Q ceilings on long-term CD's might 
merely entrench the bidding for money, although it would reduce the 
undesirable concentration of short-dated CD's. 

15 
5/4/73 
-14-
Mr. Bassett commented that portfolios of governments were 
generally down to an irreducible minimum, one reason being the require-
ment of pledging against State deposits. 
6. The Board xrould appreciate the comments 
of the Council members regarding the 
principles enunciated in Governor 
Mitchell's March 21 letter on behalf 
of the Board to Subcommittee Chairman 
St Germain relating to the participation 
of depositary institutions in the evolv-
ing payments mechanism. The Board would 
also like to have the Council's comments 
on Governor Mitchell's testimony of 
March 21 before the Senate Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs con-
cerning NOW accounts, the payments 
mechanism, and the proposed regulatory 
treatment of depositary institutions. 
The members of the Council believe that there is not yet 
agreement as to the proper relationship between the Federal Reserve 
and the private banking system as to the role each is to perform in 
the future development of the payments mechanism. Such an understand-
ing is essential. 
The Council feels that the authorization of NOW accounts 
should be deferred until general legislation arising out of the Hunt 
Commission Report can be given full consideration. 
Relative to Governor Mitchell's testimony on NOW accounts, 
the Council believes that all financial institutions providing these 
services should be subject to the same reserve requirements, the same 
tax structure, and the same interest rate ceilings, not only with 
respect to the NOW accounts, but also with respect to other types of 
consumer time and savings accounts. 
The Council supports the position of Chairman Burns as 
expressed in his address at the Spring Meeting of the American Bankers 
Association on April 26, 1973. 
President Dorrance referred to a statement in Governor Mitchell' 
testimony regarding the need for a single payments mechanism. 
Some 

1550 
5/4/73 
-15-
sentiment had emerged in the Council's separate discussion that reliance 
on such a single payments mechanism might result in excessive domination 
by the Federal Reserve. The recent changes in check clearing arrange-
ments under Regulation J had been accompanied by misunderstandings in 
some instances. There should be some way in which the banking system 
and the Fed could come closer in their objectives for the payments 
mechanism. 
Chairman Burns expressed agreement with that principle; it was 
evident that considerable efforts had still not achieved good enough 
results. He inquired how better results could be attained. President 
Dorrance said that the Council's discussion had included a suggestion 
for an advisory committee, although that had not been explored thoroughly. 
Chairman Burns gave assurance that any suggestions Council members might 
offer for concrete improvements would be earnestly considered by the 
Board. 
Discussion of the Council's reply advocating equal treatment 
of various kinds of financial institutions not only with respect to 
interest rate ceilings on NOW accounts, but also with respect to reserve 
requirements and taxation, brought out the view that such treatment also 
should be accorded to savings and loan associations. A member of the 
Board observed that over a period of years there had been a stumbling 
block because of a question whether savings and loan associations could 
survive under that kind of competition. Chairman Burns then commented 

1551 
5/4/73 
-16-
on the negotiations among Federal agencies regarding legislative 
proposals emanating from the Hunt Commission Report. One difficulty-
was that the report's recommendations were so numerous and presented 
such complex questions. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on September 6-7, 1973. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
(Note: Time did not permit discussion of other questions on 
the agenda for today's meeting, which are set out below, with the 
Council's answers.) 
7. What is the outlook for time and savings 
flows at depositary institutions and what 
major factors are likely to influence those 
flows over the months ahead? 
The members of the Council believe that the growth in time 
and savings flows at depositary institutions will lessen from the extra-
ordinarily strong pace that characterized the past two years or so. A 
major factor contributing to this development is the rise in market 
interest rates and the Regulation Q ceilings, which inhibit the ability 
of commercial banks and thrift institutions to pay fully competitive 
rates. With short-term market interest rates trending up, a further 
slowing in the inflows of savings and time deposits can be anticipated. 
In these circumstances, the suspension of Regulation Q ceilings on 
large CD's for maturities of 90 days or more would be appropriate. 
This would permit a broader distribution of CD maturities and reduce 
the vulnerability of the banking system to short-term market malfunctions. 
9. What are the Council members' views on 
the impact and appropriateness of the 
existing reserve requirements on balances 
due from domestic banks to their foreign 
branches? 

5/4/73 
-17-
The members of the Council favored the proposed amendments 
which would have reduced reserve requirements from 20 per cent to 10 
per cent on balances due from domestic banks to their foreign branches. 
The Council believes a 5 per cent reserve requirement would be even 
more appropriate, as it would place the acquisition of overseas funds 
on the same basis as domestic sources of time money. 
The Council would be interested in the present status of the 
proposed amendmen t s. 
