MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 15, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Disapproval of proposed reduction in 
discount rate at Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston. 

4
M
B 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, November 15, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr, Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Broida, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Altmann, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
o f Union Bank & Trust, Sioux Falls, South Dakota, to issue capital notes, 
copy 0 f 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

4447 
H/15/73 
_2_ 
The Board unanimously denied a request by American State Bank, 
Lubbock, Texas, for waiver of the requirement of six months' notice of 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Steuben 
Bancorp, inc., Steubenville, Ohio, to acquire shares of the successor by 
merger to The Farmers National Bank of Salem, Salem, Ohio, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Fidelity American 
Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, to acquire shares of Columbia Life 
Ins 
surance Company, Phoenix, Arizona, a company that will engage de novo in 
the 
e underwriting, as reinsurer, of credit life and credit accident and 
ealth insurance in connection with extensions of credit by the applicant's 
lending subsidiaries. The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
t h i s decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Alabama Bancorpo-
0n> Birmingh 
am, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
Fort Payne Bank, Fort Payne, Alabama, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southeast Banking 
Cotpor . 
nation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Southeast Bank of Westland, 
ialeah, Florida, a proposed new bank. The Board authorized issuance of an 
d e r reflecting this decision, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 6. 

4 >1 -18 
H/15/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Continental 
Illinois Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to retain shares of Republic 
Realty Mortgage Corporation, also of Chicago. The Board authorized 
Issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of which is attached 
as Item No, 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of County National 
Bancorporation, Clayton, Missouri, to acquire the insurance agency 
activities of General Mortgage Company of St. Louis, St. Ann, Missouri, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
i s attached as Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Forest Lake 
Finance Company, Forest Lake, Minnesota, (1) to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of Forest Lake State Bank, 
also of Forest Lake, and (2) to continue to engage in permissible insurance 
agency activities in Forest Lake, Minnesota. The Board authorized issuance 
an order reflecting these decisions, a copy of which is attached as 
Itemjk). 9. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Chairman Sparkman of 
tlle Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs in response to 
a request for the Board's views on S. 1933, a bill that would authorize 
Member banks to underwrite and deal in investment-grade revenue bonds 
lssued by a State or a political subdivision. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 10. 

4449 
11/15/73 
-4-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Reports on pending legislation. With a memorandum of November 8, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation submitted proposed letters 
In response to requests for the views of the Board on certain pending 
legislation: 
(1) H. R. 8163, a bill that would amend the Truth in Lending 
Act to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex or marital status in 
the extension of credit, and (2) S. 1604 and S. 1605, bills that would 
Prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex in the sale, rental, or 
financing of housing and in the granting of credit. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved, with changes 
l n w°rding, letters to Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Banking 
and Currency and to Senator Brock. Copies of the letters are attached as 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
Discount rate. On November 12, 19 73, the board of directors of 
e Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had voted to establish, subject to review 
and determination by the Board of Governors, a rate of 7-1/4 per cent on 
l°ans to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Th 
e current rate at all Reserve Banks was 7-1/2 per cent. The directors 
the Boston Bank had also voted to establish corresponding reductions 
ln rates on advances under other sections of the Act. 
Chairman Burns recommended that the Board deny the pending rate 
action. He observed that the economy was facing a shortage of energy, 

4450 
H/15/73 
-5-
not of dollars, and monetary devices could not be used to solve this 
nonmonetary problem. The economic impact of the energy shortage was 
V e r y hard to predict, especially since psychological reactions were 
involved, and he felt it would be desirable to have more evidence on 
the likely course of the economy before making a move. Accordingly, 
he did not think the time had come to signal a change in the posture 
°f monetary policy. 
Chairman Burns added that if the Board were to decide on a 
Policy move at this time, his own preference would be to reduce margin 
requirements on stock market purchases. He had concluded several months 
a§o that lower margin requirements would be desirable in light of credit 
conditions in the stock market. However, he feared that an action to 
Cut those requirements would probably have been interpreted as a move 
toward ease and would have resulted in market confusion at a time when 
the general posture of monetary policy was being tightened. In his 
view, the risks of such a misinterpretation were greatly reduced under 
Present circumstances. 
Governor Mitchell said he could understand the fears for the 
economy created by the energy shortage, but he agreed with the Chairman 
uiat its economic impact was still highly uncertain. Therefore, he did 
u o t think a reduction in the discount rate would be desirable at this time. 
I n fact, such a reduction could lead to difficulties by giving rise to a 
mi-staken impression of the outlook for monetary policy. Governor Mitchell 

4451 
11/15/73 
-6-
added that he would prefer not to vote on a cut in margin requirements 
before he had had a chance to review a forthcoming staff analysis of 
the stock market situation. 
Governor Daane indicated that he, too, felt the potential impact 
of the energy crisis was not yet discernible and he would not want to 
lower the discount rate at this time. He added that such an action might 
well prove to be counterproductive if it led to the conclusion that the 
monetary authorities foresaw significant easing in over-all economic 
activity stemming from the energy crisis. Like Governor Mitchell, he 
was not prepared to vote on margin requirements today. 
Governor Sheehan commented that the energy situation had served 
to increase his pessimism about the economic outlook and he was also 
troubled by the bearish implications of the sharp declines in stock prices. 
While he was uncertain as to timing, he thought good arguments could be 
made in favor of a cut in margin requirements and also in favor of 
rescinding the most recent increase in marginal reserve requirements on 
large -denomination certificates of deposit. With regard to the discount 
rate, he did not want to approve a reduction today but preferred to wait 
until after the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on November 20 
before considering such a move. 
Governor Bucher said he shared Governor Sheehan's concern about 
the economic outlook; indeed, he could not believe that the energy crisis 
would have anything but a negative influence on economic activity. He was 

4452 
H/15/73 
-7-
especially concerned about the probability of a highly inflationary 
response from fiscal policy if the energy shortage were to trigger a 
recession next year. For the moment he thought some sort of easing 
signal was needed from monetary policy. His first preference would 
be to lower margin requirements at the earliest opportunity following 
the appearance of some stability in the stock market. His second 
choice would be to reduce the marginal reserve requirements on large-
denomination CD's. He also thought serious consideration should be 
given to a reduction in the discount rate, but like Governor Sheehan he 
would prefer to wait until after the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee before taking action. 
Governor Holland said he did not think a reduction in the discount 
rate would be timely. He agreed with Chairman Burns that the impact of 
the energy crisis, was highly conjectural at this point and the problems 
were of a kind that were not susceptible to a monetary remedy. Moreover, 
a reduction would not be desirable at a time when growth in the monetary 
a8gregates appeared to be accelerating and when short-term market rates 
were fluctuating at levels that traditionally would call for a higher, 
rather than a lower, discount rate. Governor Holland added that he would 
favor a prompt reduction in margin requirements and in marginal reserve 
requirements on large-denomination CD's, although he would not want to 
take both actions simultaneously. 
Following further discussion the Board voted unanimously to 
-^approve the pending discount rate reduction. It was agreed that a 

4153 
11/15/73 
-8-
letter outlining the major reasons for the Board's decision would be 
sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and that the directors of 
that Bank would be invited to spell out more fully their views regarding 
the economic outlook and monetary policy. A copy of the wire forwarded 
on behalf of the Boston Bank directors on November 13 is attached as 
Item No. 13. 
It was understood that the substance of the letter sent to the 
Boston Bank, without identification of the Bank involved, would be 
communicated to the Presidents of the other Federal Reserve Banks. A 
c°py of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and a copy 
°f the memorandum sent to the Presidents of the other Federal Reserve 
Banks, dated November 15 and 16, 1973, respectively, are attached as 
Items 14 and 15. 
Other discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
and Dallas on November 8 and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on 
November 9, 1973, of the rates on advances and discounts in their existing 
schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate 
advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Messrs. Bernard, Broida, Altmann, Bryant, and Reynolds then 
withdrew, and the following persons joined the meeting: 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Managing Director for Operations and 
Supervision 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Tuttle, Assistant General Counsel 

4151 
11/15/73 
-9-
NOW accounts. With a memorandum of November 13, 1973, 
Mr, Melnicoff presented a summary of the comments received following 
publication of the Board's proposals for regulating accounts subject 
to negotiable orders of withdrawal (NOW accounts). 
In light of the comments received and preparatory to meetings 
with the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, the 
Board held a preliminary discussion today in which the current situation 
with respect to NOW accounts was considered, and in which guidance to 
the staff for preparation of further documentation was given. 
Underwriting of mortgage guaranty insurance. At its meeting 
on October 17, 1973, the Board considered whether engaging in the 
underwriting of real estate mortgage guaranty insurance was a permissible 
activity under the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act. In order 
to facilitate a determination of this question, the Board had scheduled 
an oral presentation to be held on November 28, 1973. In a memorandum 
of November 14, 1973, the Legal Division requested that the Board, in 
the light of petitions received, consider whether to delay the oral 
Presentation and reconsider its decision not to hold a formal hearing. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously agreed to reschedule 
the oral presentation for January 24, 1974, and confirmed its earlier 
decision to hold an oral presentation rather than a formal hearing. 
The Board authorized issuance of a Federal Register notice to this effect, 
a copy of which is attached as Item No. 16. 

4155 
11/15/73 
-10-
Interbank loan participations. With a memorandum of November 14, 
1973, the Legal Division submitted a draft letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York that would indicate the Board's concurrence in the 
New York Bank's recommendation that "interbank loan participations," 
instruments through which nonbank third parties participate in the 
Federal funds market, should be subject to the reserve and interest rate 
requirements of Regulations D and Q. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the letter to 
the New York Bank and authorized publication in the Federal Register of 
the substance of the letter as a supplemental interpretation to the 
Board's Federal funds interpretation of February 1970. Copies of the 
letter and supplemental interpretation are attached as Items 17 and 18. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation J. At its meeting on November 8, 
19 73, the Board considered publication for comment of a proposed amendment 
to Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve 
Banks, that would provide for a system of electronic transfers of funds 
In the payments mechanism. With a memorandum of November 14, 19 73, the 
Office of Board Members and the Legal Division submitted a revised draft 
Federal Register notice and press release. The draft documents invited 
c°mments on broad issues concerning electronic funds transfers as well 
a s on the specific regulatory proposal. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved, with changes 
In wording, publication for comment of a Federal Register notice and a 

4456 
11/15/73 
-11-
press release concerning the proposed amendment. Copies of these 
documents are attached under Item No. 19. 
All staff members then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg and 
Melnicoff. 
Martin Building. Chairman Burns referred to actions taken by 
the Board at its meetings on November 7, 1969, and March 5, 1970, at 
which he was not present, designating the Board's new building as the 
"William McChesney Martin, Jr., Building" and authorizing installation 
of a plaque in honor of former Chairman Martin in the lobby of the 
building. He reported that he had recently been informed of these 
actions and of the fact that the total cost of the plaque was expected 
to amount to approximately $18,000, and he said that he had some 
questions about the size of this expenditure. 
A general discussion followed, during which it was noted that 
about one-half of the cost of the plaque had already been incurred, 
and that former Chairman Martin had posed for sketches incident to the 
Preparation of the plaque. At the conclusion of the discussion, it was 
agreed that it would be inappropriate and undesirable for the Board at 
this late date to reverse its prior decision to install a plaque. 
In the ensuing discussion, the Board also agreed that there 
Would be no exterior signs installed designating the new building as 
the "Martin Building." This action reversed an earlier decision taken 
by the Board at its March 5, 1970, meeting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/15/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O N R E B P D N D C r 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 15, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Union Bank & Trust 
Sioux Falls, South Dakota 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204 J. (f) (3) (i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $750,000 in 
subordinated capital notes by Union Bank & Trust, Sioux Falls, 
South Dakota, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis. This approval is given on the condition that the 
capital notes cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity 
without the approval, of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is 
granted with the under standing that the sale of the capital notes 
will be consummated within six months from the date of this 
letter. 
It is further understood that any advertising with respect 
to the obligations will, in addition to being in compliance 
with the provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly 
distinguish the nature of the obligation from a deposit, in-
cluding by setting forth in bold face type that the obligation 
is subordinated to the claims of depositors and not insured 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

4158 
% 
m 
v i tj 
m 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
fJF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20555 
Item No. 2 
11/15/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A t . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
NOV 1 5 1973 
Board of Directors 
American State Bank 
Lubbock, Texas 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
given careful consideration to your bank's request for a waiver of 
the six-month notice requirement for withdrawal from the.Federal 
Reserve System,, However, the Board has concluded that there are 
not present in this case any exceptional circumstances warranting 
such waiver. 
Accordingly, the request, as submitted with 
Mr. Paynes letter of October 25, 1973, has been denied. 
The Board notes with regret the decision by your bank 
to withdraw from membership in the Federal Reserve System. A 
most important privilege of membership in the Federal Reserve 
System is that emergency credit is available at all times, for 
a's long as necessary, to assist member banks in meeting unusual 
situations, such as may result from national, regional, or local 
difficulties or from exceptional circumstances involving a particular 
member hank. 
In this sense, membership in the System is a form of 
Protection to the individual bank in that it is assured that any 
time in the future, regardless of the severity of local and regional 
circumstances, it will have access to the full resources of the 
Federal Reserve System. The Board does not believe that the 
circumstances described in Mr. Paynes letter would have warranted 
the granting of emergency credit, but it wishes to call this 
important benefit to your bank's attention. 
The Board notes that your bank applied for and was granted 
seasonal credit in the approximate amount and duration of qualifica-
tion over a six-month period, and that additional credit was made 
Mailable during five of the twenty-seven weeks of consecutive 

4459 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
seasonal borrowing, pursuant to the provision in Regulation A 
for short-term adjustment credit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

4460 
FEDERAL RESERVfc SYSTEM 
item 
No„ 15 
11/15/73 
FIRST STEUBEN BANCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Steuben Bancorp, Inc., Steubenville, Ohio, a bank holding 
c°mpany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
fo* the Board1s approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
fcn 
acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
®hares) of the successor by merger to The Farmers National Bank of Salem, 
Salem, Ohio ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no 
8l8nificance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the 
Votit*g shares of Bank, Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares 
the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisi-
tlor» of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
^er8on8 to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
8 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a - 
. 
none has been timely received. The Board has considered the appli-
Catl°n in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(l2 U.S,C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls two banks with aggregate deposits of 
^^Proximately $93 million, representing 0.3 per cent of deposits in 
c°ttanercial banks in Ohio, and is the tenth largest multi-bank holding 
°mPany and thirty-ninth largest banking organization in the State, 
banking data are as of June 30, 1973, and reflect holding company 

4461 
- 2 -
formations and acquisitions approved through September 15, 1973.) The 
acquisition of Bank (with deposits of $53 million) would increase Appli-
Cant's share of State deposits by less than one-half of one percentage 
P°int. 
Bank serves the Salem banking market which encompasses the 
n°rthern section of Columbiana County (including the communities of 
a l e m» Lisbon and Columbiana) and the portion of Mahoning County which 
l n clud e s the townships of Green and Goshen. Bank is the largest of 
the 
8 e v e n b a n k s serving the market and holds approximately 32 per cent 
f tQtal deposits. The second, third, and fourth largest banks in the 
Market f< 
U n terms of deposits) hold collectively approximately 48 per 
of u 
the total market deposits with respective holdings of approxi-
t e ly 24 per cent, 15 per cent, and 9 per cent of such deposits. The 
U f t h largest market bank is a subsidiary of Ohio's largest banking 
rSani2 a t l o n a n d b a n k h o l d i n g 
c o m p a n y # 
Applicant's closest subsidiary banking office is located 30 
^iles 
south of Bank's Lisbon office, and it does not compete in the 
Salg^ , 
banking market at the present time. No meaningful present com-
Petitl 
would be eliminated between offices of Bank and Applicant's 
aUb8ldi 
iary banks by consummation of this proposal, and in view of 
t e8tti c M 
scions on branching imposed by Ohio law and distances separat-
ing 
e banking offices, it appears unlikely that any significant 
Qlpetition between Bank and Applicant's banking offices would develop, 
ermore, it appears that Applicant would not find de novo entry into 

4462 
-'3* 
Columbiana County particularly desirable considering the county's rather 
lilted economic prospects and the large number of banking offices operat-
e s in the area. Consummation of the proposal in the Board's opinion 
° U l d h ave no significantly adverse effect on competition nor tend to 
C t e a t e a monopoly or in any manner be in restraint of trade in the 
Sal*m market. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, 
i ts 
Present subsidiaries, and of Bank are generally satisfactory, and 
Prospects for each appear favorable and, accordingly, considerations 
8 to banking factors are consistent with approval of the applica-
°n* Although there is no evidence that the major banking needs of 
the arPA 
e a a r e not being adequately served at the present time, the 
APpii 
Pl*0 
Posed affiliation would benefit the residents of the area since 
c ant proposes to make the trust services of its lead bank avail-
*ble t"r» 
customers of Bank, to provide Bank with on-line computer ser-
ies 
U 
communities to be served are consistent with approval of the 
Ucfi 
Pto 
VIC«8 » and to assist in servicing loan requests in excess of Bank's 
i n g l i mit. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
the 
aPpllcat. 
C3-on. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
9 p P U c a n 
ai-ion should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the rc 
^de 
the ^ 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
( a ) before the thirtieth calendar Jay following the effective 

4463 
-4-
d a t e of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to 
legated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
heehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
P e r n o r Brimmer. 

4464 
FEDERAL RESERVfc SYSTEM 
item 
No„ 
4 
11/15/73 
FIDELITY AMERICAN BANKSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Columbia 
Life Insurance Company 
Fidelity American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, a bank 
n8 company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPplied f tor the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
^ 
e oard's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of Columbia 
I t l S u r a n c e Company, Phoenix, Arizona ("Company"), a company that will 
etl8age d 
novo in the underwriting, as reinsurer, of credit life and credit 
*Cci<lent 
and health insurance in connection with extensions of credit by 
n c s lending subsidiaries. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
0 submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
d m y Published (37 Federal Register 4230). The time for filing 
Cqi 
t S a n d views has expired and all received have been considered, 
e cnose presented orally and in writing in connection with a Board 
8 on March 24, 1972, pertaining to the underwriting of credit life 
^ 
accident and health insurance in general and this application 
11 " O c u l a r . 
Effective December 11, 1972, the Board amended § 225.4 of 
V a t l o n y 
a
 
t o add the activity of "acting as underwriter for credit life 
c*edit 
accident and health insurance which is directly related to 
al°ns of 
r credit by the bank holding company system" to the list of 
•-leg 
le fioard has determined to be closely related to banking 
C P R 225-4(a)(l0)). 

- 2 -
4465 
Applicant controls 14 banks with total deposits of $540.6 million, 
^Presenting 5 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the State, 
nc* is the eighth largest banking organization in Virginia. 
(All banking 
dtit 
a 
as of December 31, 1972, and reflect bank holding company formations 
n d acquisitions approved by the Board through October 1, 1973.) Applicant's 
banking subsidiaries include a finance company and a mortgage company. 
Company will be formed as an Arizona insurance corporation with 
nitial capital of $155,000. As Company will be qualified to underwrite 
urance directly only in Arizona, its activities will be limited to 
o as reinsurer of credit life and credit accident and health insurance 
Poiicl 
8 made available in connection with extensions of credit by Applicant's 
subsidiaries. Such insurance will be directly underwritten by an 
in3urer 
°r insurers qualified to underwrite in the State where Applicant's 
aries engage in business and will thereafter be assigned or ceded 
0lnPany under a reinsurance agreement. 
Credit life and credit accident and health insurance is generally 
^de a v ailable by banks and other lenders and is designed to assure repayment 
of a 
a n in the event of death or disability of the borrower. In connection 
V l t h its ,, 
addition of credit life underwriting to the list of permissible 
aCtiVitief? f 
, 
ror bank holding companies, the Board stated: 
To assure that engaging in the underwriting of credit 
iife and credit accident and health insurance can reasonably 
expected to be in the public interest, the Board will only 
aPprove applications in which an applicant demonstrates that 
aPproval will benefit the consumer or result in other 
Public benefits. Normally such a showing would be made 
a projected reduction in rates or increase in policy 
enefits due to bank holding company performance of 
this service. 

44C6 
- 3 -
Applicant has applied for permission to engage in the reinsurance 
following types of insurance coverage to be offered in the State 
f Virginia: individual and joint level term credit life insurance on 
Sinrvi 
1/ 
e payment loans; 
individual and joint decreasing credit life insurance; 
d individual decreasing credit accident and health insurance. 
Applicant has stated that its proposed reinsurance subsidiary 
mPany) a n d t h e d l r e c t underwriter which issues the credit life and credit 
accident 
and health insurance policies made available by Applicant's lending 
aries will reduce the rates charged for all types of credit life 
in8uranc e oy 7.7 per cent from the rates they presently charge. In 
3ddition » Applicant will reduce the rate charged for individual decreasing 
Ctedit 
accident and health insurance by 5 per cent and will also make improve-
ments i 
n Policy coverage. The Board finds that the reduced cost of such 
insurance coverage is procompetitive and is in the public interest. The 
B°ard C o exudes that such public benefits outweigh any possible adverse 
e£fects o f approval of the application. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
record t-u n 
» cne Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
°rs th 
e Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
regard the sale of level term credit life insurance 
f Ctedit 
W i t h installment lending as directly related to an extension 
that 
? 
4(a)(9)(ii) of Regulation Y; however, the Board has 
2/ t e d to ! U C h i n s u r a n c e in connection with single payment loans is directly 
ToiApplieantn e X t e n s i o n o f c r e dit-
tes
nt Credit ? a k e s available and proposes to underwrite the aforementioned 
Ulting frrZ^f coverage for co-makers or co-signers on indebtedness 
roi& the extension of credit. 

4467 
Accordingly, 
the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to 
Board's authority to require such modification or termination of the 
activities 
of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
f l n d s necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
tlle Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
P t e v e n t evasion thereof. 
The transaction shall be made not later than three months 
after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
£ot* 
good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Purauant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
[SEAL] 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
•J./ VoTT 
sheeh 
8 f o r t h i s a c t i o n : 
V i c e Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Gov^>.an* B u cher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Grn°r Brimmer. 

FEDERAL RESERVfc SYSTEM 
item 
No„ 
5 
11/15/73 
ALABAMA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Alabama Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, a bank holding 
n y v i t h i n the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
e Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
C q U i r e a 1 1 °f the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
SUccessor by merger to the Fort Payne Bank, Fort Payne, Alabama ("Bank"). 
a n k into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a 
*eans to f 
^ 
racilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
pr°posed acquisition of shares of the successor organization is treated 
here*n as ^ 
tne proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to 
u 
submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
3 ( b ) of t h 
trie Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
^ 
n<me h 
v 
nas been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
light o f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company in Alabama, controls 
e b a n k 
1/ 
8> with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.1 billion, 
s 
8 15.6 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the 
Ac w s i t i o n of Bank would increase Applicant's share of State deposits 
^ 0.2 
PGrcentage points and would not significantly increase the concentration 
i? 
0tho 
a n < 4 
— 
~ ~ 
—
—
— 
- • " ' - " • - " O 
< 
acquisitions approved through October 31, 1973, unless 
n°ted. 
d a t a a r e a s of June 30, 1973, and reflect holding company 

4409 
- 2 -
f Resources in the State. Applicant would continue to be the largest bank 
hiding company in Alabama upon consummation of the proposed acquisition. 
Bank ($13.1 million in deposits as of June 30, 1972) is the second 
*argest of eight banking organizations in the DeKalb County banking market 
Approximated by DeKalb County) where it controls approximately 23 per cent 
Of £1. -
deposits in that market. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank closest to 
Bank io «-u 
A S the J. C. Jacobs Banking Company, Inc., located in Scottsboro, 30 
toiles 
* away i n a different banking market. It does not appear that any 
aningful competition exists between this bank or any of Applicant's other 
i d i a r y banks and Bank. Engel Mortgage Company, a nonbanking 
S i d i a ry of Applicant, maintains no offices in DeKalb County and has 
nated no business from the service area of Bank. Thus, consummation 
t b e proposed acquisition would not adversely affect existing competition 
i n the Y^I 
relevant market. Further, the development of future competition 
Bank and Applicant's subsidiary banks or the de novo entry of 
^Ppli 
Cant into the market appears unlikely in view of the population 
anking office ratio of DeKalb County. It is the Board's judgment that 
compe 
ive considerations are consistent with approval of th6 application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicanf , 
uci Its present subsidiary banks, and Bank, are regarded as satis-
f*ct0*y. r 
considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
v U h 
PProval of the application. Although there is no evidence in the 
tec°rd 
C o indicate that banking needs of the residents of the DeKalb County 
n§ market are not currently being met, the proposed affiliation is 

4470 
-26-
U k e l y t o result In expansion of the range of services presently offered 
l 
y Bank. Affiliation with Applicant should provide Bank greater access to 
the 
e Applicant's financial and managerial resources and thereby enable it 
to 
provide new and improved banking services to the residents of the Fort 
Payne area. Applicant proposes to assist Bank in recruitment and the train-
itig 0 f 
^ personnel as well as provide access to trust services and mortgage 
nancing. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
^unity to be served lend weight toward approval of the application. 
It 
cne Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the 
p U b u c interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
th* re 
asons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) 
bef°re th 
che thirtieth calendar day follox^ing the effective date of this 
^der 
* o r (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
°tderj 
nless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
Bed 
e ral Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority, 
n 
1/ 
ny order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 15, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
f° r t h i s action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
°Verhor " c h e r» and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
trimmer. 

4471 
FEDERAL RESERVfc SYSTEM 
item No„ 6 
11/15/73 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842 
<a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of South-
e a st Bank of Westland, Hialeah, Florida ("Hialeah Bank"), a proposed 
n e* bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e r s o n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) 
of the Act, The time for filing comments and views has expired 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n Ught of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8«2(c)). 
Applicant controls 24 banks with aggregate deposits of $1.6 
b l lUon, representing approximately 8 per cent of the deposits in 
commercial banks in Florida, and is the largest banking organization 
a n d bank holding company in the State. (All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1972, and reflect formations and acquisitions approved 
b y ^ e Board through September 30, 1973.) Acquisition of Hialeah Bank 
n°t increase the percentage of deposits held by Applicant since 
atlk is a proposed new bank. The proposal would not eliminate exist-
6 competition 
nor significantly increase the concentration of bank-
^sources in any relevant area. 

4472 
-2-
The proposed site of Hialeah Bank is in the western section 
o f the City of Hialeah. The relevant banking market (Greater Miami 
inking market) consists of all of Dade County and the southern 
Portion of Broward County where 40 banking organizations are repre-
sented controlling in the aggregate 98 banks with total deposits of 
billion. Applicant controls the largest share of market deposits 
through six subsidiary banks which hold collectively deposits of $1,2 
biiHon, representing 23 per cent of total deposits in the market. 
applicant1s largest subsidiary bank is located in the City of Miami 
a n d c°ntrols slightly more than 20 per cent of the market. Multi-
holding companies control the second, third, and fourth largest 
8hares of deposits in the market and have, respectively, 8.9 per 
C e n t> 8.8 per cent, and 5.24 per cent of total market deposits. 
Applicant's subsidiary closest to Hialeah Bank's proposed site is 
Seated 7 m t x e s t 0 th e southeast. On the facts of record and in 
w °£ the projected growth of the Hialeah area at a rate approxi-
mately 40 p e r c e n t higher than for the State as a whole, and the 
S e r o u s banking offices located in the areas intervening between 
Bank a j 
* 
any of Applicant's subsidiary banks, it appears that con-
sternation of the proposal would not eliminate any significant amount 
future competition between the proposed new bank and any of 
PPlicant's present subsidiaries. On the basis of the record before 
Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
*ould 
not have a significant adverse effect on competition in any 
V ant area, nor have a significant adverse effect on any competing 

- 2 -
4473 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
subsidiary banks are deemed satisfactory especially in view of Applicant1! 
c°mniitment to increase the capital of its subsidiaries, and the projected 
g r° W t h a n d earnings for the group appear favorable• Hialeah Bank, as 
a Proposed new bank, has no financial or operating history; however, 
its Prospects under Applicant's management appear favorable. Banking 
fact 
°rs as they concern Applicant's group and the proposed new bank 
r e consistent with approval of the application. Although there is no 
e n c e t h a t the major banking needs of the area are not being ade-
^ ately served at the present time, the proposed new bank will provide 
convenient source of banking services for the rapidly growing Hialeah 
m e o f the services Applicant proposes to provide through 
Kiaieah r oank include consumer and personal loans, small business finan-
cing 
rtgage financing, and professional billing and payroll account-
Considerations under convenience and needs aspects of the pro-
posal a r e consistent with approval and lend some weight thereto. 
It 
, 
c Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisi-
tion WOulH k 
a b e in the public interest and that the application should 
b e aPProved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
13 summarized above* The transaction shall not be consummated 
b*for 
k 
e the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
thi8 
S°uth 
t d e r o r (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) 
6 a 8 t B a n k of Westland, Hialeah, Florida, shall be opened for 

4474 
-4-
busine38 not later than six months after the effective date of this 
Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended 
fo* good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
^ 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
a n d Governor Brimmer. 

4475 
FEDERAL RESERVfc SYSTEM 
i t e m 
No„ 
7 
11/15/73 
CONTINENTAL ILLINOIS CORPORATION 
Order Approving Retention of Republic Realty Mortgage Corporation 
Continental Illinois Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the 
Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to retain all 
°f the voting shares of Republic Realty Mortgage Corporation, Chicago, 
Illinois ("Company") 1/ a company that engages in the following 
activities; origination and acquisition of real estate loans (including 
construction lending) both FHA-insured and conventional as principal 
o r agent; sale of real estate loans to investors; servicing of real 
estate loans; acting as agent or broker in connection with the placement 
o f credit life and credit disability insurance related to real estate 
loans originated or serviced; and other incidental activities related 
t o the mortgage banking business.^ Such activities have been determined 
by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), 
<3)> and (9)). 
i/ Said shares were acquired by Continental Illinois Corporation on 
JUne 16, 1970, through the merger of Company into a wholly-owned subsidiary 
o f Continental Illinois Corporation formed for the express purpose of 
acquiring Company. Under the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of the Act, more 
^an 5 per cent of said shares may not be retained beyond December 31, 
without Board approval. 
-=/ Company also engages in the activity of acting as agent or broker in 
c°nnection with the placement of property and casualty insurance related 
t o real estate loans it originates or services. Continental Illinois 
C°rporation intends to file with the Board, at a later date, a separate 
application for continuation of this activity by the Company under 
4(c)(8) of the Act. Accordingly, the Board's Order herein makes no 
determination under § 4(c)(8) of the Act with respect to the Company's 
c°ntinuing to act as agent or broker in connection with the placement of 
PrQperty and casualty insurance related to real estate loans it originates 
o t services. Under the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of the Act, such activity 
^ y not be engaged in by Company beyond December 31, 1980, without 
°ard approval. 

-2-
4176 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
has been duly published (38 Federal Register 26152). The time for 
filing comments and views has expired, and none has been timely 
received. 
Applicant owns the Continental Illinois National Bank 
and Trust Company of Chicago ("Bank"), the largest bank in Illinois. 
B"ankls total deposits of $7.1 billion represent 15.5 per cent of 
the total commercial bank deposits in the State, and 20.4 per cent 
o f the total commercial bank deposits in the Chicago banking market.2/ 
fiank originates and services mortgage loans solely for its own account, 
during 1969, the last full year prior to Applicant's acquisition 
o f Company, Bank originated $25.2 million of mortgage loans, over 
9 0 per cent of which related to parcels of land in the Chicago SMSA 
(tthich embraces the six northeastern counties in Illinois). Bank 
serviced $114.7 million of its outstanding mortgage loans as of 
December 31, 1969 and as of that date had outstanding construction 
Xoans of $48.4 million. Comparable figures for 1972 show that Bank 
°riginated $44.6 million, serviced $172.3 million and had outstanding 
construction loans of $85.2 million. The largest share of Bank's 
m°rtgage originations have involved one-to-four family residential 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1972. 

- 3 -
4477 
properties. Such originations accounted for 58 per cent of Bank's 
originations in 1969 and 72 per cent in 1972. Two of Applicant's 
ftonbanking subsidiaries also act as investment advisors for real 
estate investment trusts.A/ Both of the trusts served by these investment 
advisors are California-based and their investments outside of California 
an<i Texas have not been significant. 
Company engages primarily in originating mortgage loans 
for resale to institutional investors and in servicing such loans 
for these investors. In June, 1970, when Applicant acquired Company, 
Company had its main office in Chicago, Illinois, and branch offices 
St. Louis, Missouri, and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Company opened 
a n additional office in Atlanta, Georgia in June, 1972. During 1969, 
Company originated $22.8 million of mortgage loans, of which 
$18.6 million were on parcels within the Chicago SMSA. Company had 
a mortgage loan servicing portfolio of $132 million as of December 31, 
"^69, and as of that date had outstanding construction loans of 
$9*3 million. Comparable figures for 1972 show that Company originated 
million of mortgage loans, of which $71.7 million were on parcels 
W i t h i n the Chicago SMSA, had a servicing portfolio of $220 million, 
a n d °utstanding construction loans of $32.1 million. Based on its 
Servicing portfolio, Company ranked as the 130th largest mortgage 
Vi, Applicant owns all of the outstanding voting shares of Continental 
V Q 
nois Realty Advisors, Inc., which also owns all of the outstanding 
i ng shares of Continental Illinois Properties Advisors, Inc. 

- 4 -
4478 
company in the nation just prior to its acquisition and ranked at 
the end of 1972 as the 133rd largest in the nation and the 15th largest 
with offices in Chicago. 
The Board regards the standards under § 4(c)(8) for retention 
to be the same as the standards for a proposed acquisition. The 
Primary effects of the acquisition and proposed retention upon competition 
appear to be limited to the Chicago SMSA where over 80 per cent of 
Company's and over 90 per cent of Bank's mortgage loans are originated.!./ 
The acquisition of Company did not eliminate any meaningful competition 
between Bank and Company in the origination of mortgages on one-to-
f o ur family residential properties since Company did not and does 
n o t originate such loans to any significant extent. Similarly, no 
competition with regard to servicing loans for third parties was 
eHminated since Bank services loans solely for its own account. 
I t appears that there was some competition between Bank and Company 
i n the origination of mortgage loans on income-producing properties 
a n d in the making of construction loans. However, in view of the 
re8ional and perhaps national market for such loans and the numerous 
competitors for such loans, the acquisition does not appear to have 
eliminated significant existing competition. Although Applicant 
aPpears capable of expanding Bank's mortgage lending activities or 
f°rming a de novo mortgage company, Applicant's acquisition did not 
— 
in M B a n k d i d n o t a n d d o e s n o t c o m P e t e w ith the other offices of Company 
Milwaukee, St. Louis, and Atlanta. 

4479 
- 5 -
adversely affect competition since the acquisition of Company gave 
Applicant only small shares of the relevant markets and because of 
the presence of numerous other competitors for mortgage loans in 
the Chicago SMSA..§/ Based on these facts and other facts of record, 
the Board has concluded that the acquisition and the proposed retention 
had and would have no significant adverse effects on existing or 
future competition. 
At the time of the acquisition, it could reasonably have 
been expected that affiliation of Company with Applicant would make 
funds more readily available to Company, thus allowing Company to 
e*Pand its operations in Chicago and elsewhere. It could also have 
been expected that Company would increase its participation in making 
funds available for low-income housing. Since affiliation with 
Applicant, Company's capital base has been increased substantially, 
ttlUs increasing the availability of lines of credit from unaffiliated 
banks, substantial credit has been extended by Applicant to Company, 
a n 
j 
a new office has been opened in Atlanta, Georgia. Company has 
a l s o> since affiliation, taken an active role in financing low-income 
fusing projects and hospital construction. Thus, the expectations 
xPtessed above appear to be consistent with what has taken place 
to dah 
J 
a<-e and it can reasonably be expected that these public benefits 
vh 1 i 
continue as a result of the proposed retention. These public 
eilefits clearly outweigh any possible adverse effects upon competition, 
67 
— 
27q 
o f December 31, 1972 there were 52 mortgage banking concerns, 
in t ? a v i n 8 s and loan associations and 330 commercial banks with offices 
c ne Chicago SMSA. 

- 6 -
4-180 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
determination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
°f Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective November 16, 
1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
I SEAL 1 
this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Govo 
' B u cher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
r n o r Brimmer. 

4481 
FEDERAL RESERVfc SYSTEM 
item 
No„ 37 
11/15/73 
COUNTY NATIONAL' BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Insurance Agency Activities 
of General Mortgage Company of St. Louis 
County National Baricorporation, Claytoh, Missouri, a bank 
ding 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
225 
•4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire the insurance 
y activities of General Mortgage Company of St. Louis ("Company"), 
A n n» Missouri. Certain insurance agency activities have been deter-
mined h 
°y the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e rso n s tn 
u 
«*o submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
i 
1/ 
u ly published. (37 Federal Register 24852). ~~ The time for filing 
C0lument8 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered all comments 
teceiVecj j 
m light of the public interest factors set forth in § 4(c)(8) 
t-v> 
2/ 
t h e Act. ~ 
aPpli U b l i S h e d n o t i c e o f t h i s application was Included in the notice of 
IiaSoUri C a
T
t l o n t o a cq uire General Mortgage Company of St. Louis, St. Ann, 
telated p 
n t h e National Association of Insurance Agents, Inc., and 
a c t i v i t i e t i e s o b^ e c t e < i t o t h e proposed acquisition of the insurance agency 
!fPa*ate
 3 ° f C o mP a ny» and requested a hearing thereon, Applicant requested 
tK ihsu r
C O n 8 i d e r a t : i c m b y t h e B o a r d o f t h e o t h e r activities of Company and 
If acquisi°4 a g e n c y activities of Company. Subsequently, the Board approved 
1ectiv« * t i o n o f Company except for the insurance agency activities, 
f > 
Sat?*"? 1 3 ' 1 9 7 3 • 
a 
a Dei-? 
Association of Insurance Agents, Inc., and related parties 
th* tecluestit:i0n ° n D e c e m b e r 1 2» 1 9 7 2 » objecting to approval of the application 
Af! Boatd d ^ 8 3 h e a r l n 8 be held upon the application. On March 6, 1973, 
8 
Ad 
t h a t a h e a r i n & be held on this application, among others. 
Administrative Law Judge designated to conduct the proceeding 
aer h e a r i n 8 » t h e objectors to the application and the Applicant 
v W e b 
A™6111 whereby the objections to the application were withdrawn 
l9^clfied a 
p p l i c a n t agreed to be bound by the final outcome of certain 
do • the 2 d P l i C a t l 0 n s t o e n S a 8 e in insurance agency activities. On August 13, 
and 
n i s t r a t i v e Law Judge dismissed the application from the hearing 
referred the application back to the Board. 

4482 
- 2 -
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in 
Missouri, controls two banks with aggregate deposits of $312.3 million, 
^Presenting 2.2 per cent of the total deposits of commercial banks 
Missouri. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1972* and 
reflect bank holding acquisitions and formations through September 30, 
•) Earlier this year, Applicant acquired Company, but stated that 
°®pany would neither write new insurance policies nor renew expiring 
durance pending the outcome of the application. 
Company has previously engaged in the sale of insurance as agent 
connection with its mortgage company activities. Company had gross 
M i s s i o n income of approximately $30,000 for the year ending March 31, 
Virtually all of the commissions resulted from the sale of 
deciinl 
«g coverage term life insurance policies where the coverage was 
equal t o tne outstanding balance of a mortgage held or serviced by 
P a n y» tlle s ale of accident and health insurance policies where the 
COVe>-a 
8C was equal to monthly mortgage payments, and the sale of homeowners 
insuran 
e policies where the primary coverage of the policies protects 
bilateral 
a-L which formed 
the basis for an extension of credit by Company 
cures a mortgage serviced by Company. Thus, it appears virtually 
Co 
°mpany's gross insurance commission income is directly related 
to a n 
"•^tension of credit by Company or directly related to provision of 
other f-i 
uancial services of Company. 
sai6
 
N e i t h e r Applicant nor its banking subsidiaries engage in the 
Of 
as agents or brokers although Applicant's banking 
o f insurance 

4483 
Subsidiaries do engage in the sale of credit life and accident and health 
nsurance« Effectuation of the proposal would not eliminate any 
8i8nificant existing o r f u t u r e competition between Applicant or its banking 
ubsidiaries and Company in view of the limited nature of the respective 
nsurance activities. Nor does it appear that permitting Company, as a 
SUbgjJj 
aiary of Applicant, to continue to engage in insurance agency activities, 
adversely affect the numerous existing competitors in the areas where 
CoinPany d o e s 
b u s i n e s s . 
It is anticipated that the sale of insurance by Company will 
Pr°v*de a 
d convenient alternative source of insurance agency services 
Customers of Company. There is no evidence in the record indicating 
consummation of the proposed transaction would result in any 
concentration of resources, unfair competition, conflicts of 
interests unsound banking practices, or other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
ltiterest f 
ractors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
f*Voi'able ' A 
• Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
nation is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of 
g U l*ti 0 n y 
* and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
termi nation of the activities of a holding company or any of its sub-
St<iia*ie3 . 
, 
as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Provislo 
s and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
Ue(i the 
ereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 

-40-
4484 
The transaction shall be made not later than three months 
after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
f o r good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
St* Louis, pursuant to authority delegated hereby. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective November xg^ 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
She £ t i n 8 
t h i s action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
and p n ' B u c ^ e r and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
Governor Brimmer. 

4185 
FEDERAL RESERVfc SYSTEM 
item 
No„ 11 
11/15/73 
FOREST LAKE FINANCE COMPANY 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Retention of Insurance Agency Activities 
Forest Lake Finance Company, Forest Lake, Minnesota, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
X8A2(a)(i)) 0f formation of a bank holding company through acquisition 
of gc 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of Forest Lake State Bank, 
Forest Lake, Minnesota ("Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's approval 
U n d er § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of 
Elation Y to continue to engage in permissible insurance agency 
t-lvities i n Forest Lake, Minnesota (population of less than 4,000). 
°Peration by a bank holding company of a general insurance agency 
community with a population not exceeding 5,000 is an activity that 
tlle BoaiM u 
nas previously determined to be closely related to banking 
( l 2 <** 225.4(a)(9)(iii)(a)). 
Notice of the receipt of the applications has been given in 
C ° r d a n c e with §§ 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
atld vieviQ u 
has expired. The Board has considered the applications and all 
c°Qttnent«5 received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act, 
and the 
e considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
The 
in a 

4486 
- 2 -
Applicant, a general insurance agency and lending institution 
which conducts its business in a building adjacent to Bank, is closely 
associated with Bank through common ownership. Bank ($10.6 million 
n deposits) is the only commercial bank in the community of Forest 
L a k e, which is located within the northern perimeter of the Minneapolis-
St • Paul RMA,1/ a reasonable approximation of the relevant market. 
^ 1 1 banking data are as of December 31, 1972.) Bank ranks as the 53rd 
largest commercial banking organization in the relevant market with 
0.2 n 
Per cent of total market deposits. Since Applicant has no banking 
ubaidiaries, acquisition of Bank by Applicant would not eliminate any 
xisting competition. Moreover, it does not appear that the proposal 
°uld have any adverse effect on other banks in the market, nor preclude 
the 
establishment of new banks in the area. Therefore, competitive 
nsiderations are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Annn 
^PJ-icant and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval. 
°ugh Applicant will incur debt in acquiring Bank, it appears that 
from Bank and insurance agency activities vill provide sufficient 
Venue to service the debt adequately without impairing the financial 
n d lti 0 n of Bank. Applicant proposes to transfer its credit life and 
accident and health insurance business to Bank upon consummation 
RMA 
PlUs 
refers to Ranally Metro Area which is defined as the central city 
c o m m u n i t y > 8 P er cent or more of the total population of which, 
City Per cent or more of the labor force of which, commutes to the central 
Uiotg* based on the Census of Population. No community, 35 per cent or 
Iti 
labor force of which is engaged in agriculture, is included 
RMA. 

4487 
- 2 -
o f this proposed transaction, which should provide Bank with an additional 
s°urce of income. Accordingly, considerations relating to the convenience 
needs of the community to be served, with respect to the acquisition 
o f Bank, are consistent with approval of the application. 
It is the 
Hq*sy» j f 
a 8 judgment that consummation of the transaction would be In the 
p u b U c interest and that the application to acquire Bank should be approved, 
Applicant operates a general insurance agency business out 
of 
n office adjacent to Bank and is one of three insurance agencies 
forest Lake. Retention of Applicant's insurance activities would 
nable Bank's customers to enjoy the continued convenience of obtaining 
n 8 and insurance services in conjunction with each other. There 
is 
evidence in the record indicating that consummation of the proposal 
V 0 u X d 
result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, 
Cojjf-I . 
c t s °f interest, unsound banking practices, or other adverse effects 
ttle public interest. On the basis of the foregoing and other facts 
cted in the record, the Board has determined that the considerations 
e°t:I-ng the competitive factors under § 3(c) of the Act and the balance 
of th 
e Public interest factors the Board must consider under § 4(c)(8) 
both f _ 
v ° r approval of the Applicant's proposal. 
Accordingly, the applications are approved for the reasons 
l2ed above. The acquisition of Bank shall not be made . . 
(a) befft 
'•ore the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Ord 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date 

4188 
- 2 -
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated 
authority, The determination as to Applicant's insurance activities 
l s Object to the Board's authority to require reports by, and make 
laminations of, holding companies and their subsidiaries and to require 
Such modification or termination of the activities of a holding company 
°r any 0f its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure 
0lnPHance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
e8ulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,—^ effective November 16, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
Sheeu 
8 f o r this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
G0vo a U > Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
ve*nor Brimmer. 

4489 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
\ 
F E D E R A L . R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 10 
^wfffflQ'V/^.' 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20551 
11/15/73 
• 
RcS*. * 
N o v e m b e r 15, 1973 
The .Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and 
Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear M r . Chairman: 
I a m writing in response to your request for the views of the 
Board of Governors regarding S. 1933, a bill which would authorize 
national banks (and also State m e m b e r banks), subject to certain 
Prohibition s and limitations, to underwrite and deal in in vestment-
grade, revenue bonds issued by a State or a political subdivision. 
Federal law presently permits a m e m b e r bank to underwrite 
0 f % those revenue bonds that ?,rc issued for housing, university, or 
^°rrnitory purposes, subject to a limitation of 10 per cent of the 
kink's capital and surplus for any one issuer. Otherwise, the only 
°hligations issued by a State or a political subdivision that m a y be 
Underwritten by a m e m b e r bank are general obligations --that is, 
ObliR 
ations supported by taxing powers. Those obligations m a y 
underwritten, without limitation. 
A s you know, the Board has supported similar legislation 
since 1967, when the Senate passed S. 1306, a bill similar to 
1933. In testifying in connection with S. 1306 before your 
Corrnnittee!s Subcommittee on Financial Institutions, Governor 
j^itchell, speaking for the Board, underlined the importance which 
,'"lG Board attaches to the prohibitions and limitations which, were 
Eluded in S. 1306, W e are pleased that similar limitations also 
cVo° included in S. 1933. 

4190 
The Honorable John Spark m a n 
Page 2 
A s Senator Proxmire noted in his statement accompanying the 
introduction of S. 1933, revenue bonds were rarely used as an 
instrument of municipal finance forty years ago, at the time of the 
enactment of the Glass-Steagall Act. Today, however, revenue 
bonds account for a substantial portion of all long-term State and 
local debt. N e w municipal bond issues in 1972 amounted to 
approximately $23. 6 billion; of this sum. $9. 3 billion--or 39 per 
cent--were revenue bonds. Given the present importance, of revenue 
bonds in the financing plans of State and local governments, the 
inclusion of m e m b e r banks a m o n g the organizations that m a y under-
write and deal in such obligations should broaden the market and thus 
b e beneficial to the issuers. The Board believes that the prohibitions 
and limitations contained in S. 1933 provide adequate safeguards to 
protect the banks and the public from potential conflicts of interest 
and other dangers. 
The Board appreciates the opportunity you have afforded us 
t o present our views on this legislation. I hope our c o m m e n t s will 
prove helpful to you and the other m e m b e r s of the Committee. 
Sincer elv yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

4U>1 
B • A R • • F" G D V E R N D R 5 
or THC 
F E D E F M L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
Item No. 11 
11/15/73 
JEFFREY M. (3UCHER 
MCM0ER OF THE QDARO 
November 27, 1973 
^he Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
house of Representatives 
Washington, D„ C. 20515 
D ear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for the Board's 
views on three bills introduced by Representative Bella Abzug: 
246, H.R. 247, and H.R. 248. Subsequently, Ms. Abzug introduced 
8163 as a substitute for her earlier bills. H.R. 8163 amends the 
^futh in Lending Act to prohibit discrimination in extending credit on 
the basis of sex or marital status. The Board offers the following 
comments on H.R* 8163, which is similar to Title III of S. 2101, 
Passed by the Senate and, we understand, pending before the Subcommittee 
Consumer Affairs. 
We favor the principle that creditors should not discriminate 
° n the basis of sex in the granting of credit. The National Commission 
° n Consumer Finance found such abuses to exist, and it is undoubtedly 
true that established business prcctices in the credit industry have 
Probably imposed an unfair burden on women credit applicants„ 
We believe, however, that in drafting an effective. Federal 
Ptohibition against marital, status discrimination it is essential to 
take account of State laws which indirectly but significantly affect 
creditworthiness of women. For example, such State laws generally 
imit a wife's capacity to encumber property. Thus, the Congress would 
JJ°-ed to decide (1) whether the Federal law should attempt to override 
tate lav;, so that a creditor could disregard the State law; or (2) 
Whether the Federal law should accept the various State laws, together 
v i t h their diverse and possibly adverse effects on the legal status and 
crc.ditv/orthiness of women. 
The Board also suggests that the Congress clarify whether, 
l,r>dor the Federal prohibition, creditors may consider economic factors 
associated with a loan applicant's future income which are indirectly 
plated to the applicant's marital status — for example, the relative 
cpendability of alimony or child support. 

4432 
I 
i 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 2 -
Because H.R. 8163 amends Title I of the Consumer Credit 
Protection Act, the Board would be required to address through regula-
tions the issues mentioned above which it believes are more appropriate 
for the Congress to settle. The Board believes that once the Congress 
Wore clearly defines the legal rights and responsibilities of creditors 
and borrowers under this legislation, factual determinations about 
specific instances of credit discrimination can be left to the courts, 
which can resolve such matters in the light of all the circumstances of 
the particular case. Therefore, rather than have a Federal agency issue 
rules on the subject, the Board believes the legislation should be made 
soIf-executing, eliminating the need for the issuance of interpretative 
regulations. 
With regard to the disclosure provisions of the bill, there 
i s one difficulty we should like to call to your attention. The bill 
amends § 121 of the Truth in Lending Act to require that: "Each 
creditor and card issuer shall disclose clearly and conspicuously . . . 
criteria upon which judgments of creditworthiness are made." The 
long-term effect of this requirement may be to decrease the access of 
Women to credit. The values given to various creditworthiness criteria 
G r° riot absolutes. Various factors must be weighed in relation to one 
Another to obtain a fair evaluation of a credit applicant. 
Often 
pertain criteria may be waived or modified. Taking all these factors 
rnto account requires the skills and judgment of an experienced loan 
office r. Yet advance publication of criteria could effectively deny to 
creditors the discretion they need. It also could lead them to adopt 
generally stricter criteria to safeguard against the wholesale granting 
°f credit on a compulsory basis. We believe this provision should be 
eliminated, 
We appreciate the opportunity you have afforded us to express 
views of the Board. We hope our comments will prove helpful to you 
and your Committee. 
Sincerely yours, 
15 

4423 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 12 
11/15/73 
J E F F R E Y M. BLICHER 
M E M B E R 
O F T H E 
B O A R D 
November 27, 1973 
Honorable William E. Brock 
^ited States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
D e ar Senator Brock: 
The Board is pleased to respond to your request for its comments 
S. 1604 and S. 1605, which are designed to prohibit discrimination in 
°Using and in credit granting on account of sex. We note that the provi-
sions of s. 1605, which amends the Truth in Lending Act, were largely 
^corporated into Title III of S. 2101, which was passed by the Senate on 
nly 23, 1973. Nevertheless, we would like to comment on that bill since 
issue is still current. The sale and rental., as well as financing, 
°Qf housing is covered in S. 1604 which would amend the Fair Housing Act 
o f 
With regard to this bill our remarks relate to the limited area 
^ real estate financing, although the Board, of course, favors an end to 
a i r discrimination wherever found. 
t. 
We favor the principle that creditors should not discriminate on 
c
 0 basis of sex in the granting of credit. The National Commission on 
°nsumer Finance found such abuses to exist, and it is undoubtedly true 
. a t established business practices in the credit industry have probably 
-P°sed an unfair burden on women credit applicants. 
bib1 • 
W e be 1ieve, however, that in drafting an effective Federal pro-
a c
 U i o « against marital status discrimination it is essential to take 
W o^° U n t of state laws which indirectly but significantly affect the credit-
C a ^iriess of women. 
For example, such State laws generally limit a wife's 
Pacity to encumber property. Thus, the Congress would need to decide 
a 
whether the Federal law should attempt to override State law, so that 
C , d i t o r 
c o u l d disregard the State law; or (2) whether the Federal law 
p 0 s^;^ accept the various State laws, together with their diverse and 
w°men. 
'sibly adverse effects on the legal status and creditworthiness of 

4494 
The Honorable William E. Brock 
-2-
The Board also suggests that the Congress clarify whether, under 
the Federal prohibition, creditors may consider economic factors associated 
Wl-th a loan applicant's future income which are indirectly related to the 
applic 
ant's sex or marital status — for example, the relative dependability 
°f a wife's alimony or child support. 
Because S. 1605 amends the Truth in Lending Act, the Board would 
t
e required to address through regulations the issues mentioned above which 
^ believes are more appropriate for the Congress to settle. The Board 
Sieves that once the Congress more clearly defines the legal rights and 
Responsibilities of creditors and borrowers under this legislation, factual 
terminations about specific instances of credit discrimination can be 
to the courts, which can resolve such matters in the light of all the 
^rcumstances of the particular case. Therefore, rather than have a 
eral agency issue rules on the subject, the Board believes the legisla-
tion should be made self-executing, eliminating the need for the issuance 
interpretative regulations. 
We appreciate the opportunity you have afforded us to express the 
ews of the Board. We hope our comments will prove helpful to you and 
r Committee. 
Sincerely yours, 
/s/ Jeffrey M. Bucher 
Jeffrey M. Bucher 

4195 
Item No. 13 
11/15/73 
T E L E G R A M 
NOV 13 1973 
RUSH 
CONFIDENTIAL 
CHESTER FED.)BERG, SECRETARY, BOARD OF GOVERNORS WASHINGTON DC 
AS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED, THE BOSTON DIRECTORS AT THEIR NOVEMBER 12 MEETIN 
AGAIN VOTED TO RECOMMEND A DISCOUNT RATE REDUCTION OF ONE-QUARTER PERCEN 
IT WAS THEIR VIEW THAT INDICATIONS OF A SLOWING ECONOMY WERE BECOMING 
MORE CLEAR, AND THE LIKELIHOOD OF A RECESSION IN 1974 WAS INCREASING. 
SPECIFIC AREAS OF WEAKNESS CITED WERE NEW AUTO SALES AND HOUSING STARTS; 
THE DIRECTORS FELT ENERGY SHORTAGES WOULD EXERT A HARMFUL IMPACT 
BOTH OUTPUT AND COSTS. THEY WOULD ENCOURAGE A GENERAL LESSENING OF 
MONETARY RESTRAINT, AND FEEL A DISCOUNT RATE SIGNAL AT THIS TIME WOULD 
FCE CONSTRUCTIVE. 
WASS - FRB BOSTON 

4 4fJ(> 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
, ' ^ o v CO'I^.. 
• F T H E 
1 1 e m 
N o . 
1 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/15/73 
•1 llljll - yg; 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D O R C S S 
O r r i C I A i . . 
C O K H E S P D t . ' O C H t . 
V O 
T H E 
U D A H D 
November 15, 1973 
S T R I C T L Y CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
. Frank E. M o r r i s 
President 
•federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 02106 
i 
Dear M r . Morris: 
The Board of Governors acted today to disapprove the 
pending reduction in your Bank's discount rale from 7-1/2 to 
per cent voted by your board of directors at their meeting 
N o v e m b e r 12, 1973. In view of its appraisal of the economic 
°utlook, the B.oard continues to believe that a reduction in the 
discount rate would not be desirable at this time. In reaching 
its decision, the Board took into account the fact that short-
term market rates were fluctuating well above the discount rate, 
aj"id that the monetary aggregates had recently strengthened 
somewhat. 
The Board recognized that the energy situation is 
Creating additional uncertainties in the outlook, but concluded 
that the economic implications are not yet sufficiently discernible 
t o justify any modification of monetary policy. Beyond this con-
secration the Board felt that a reduction in the discount rate 
l u the light of.' current market developments could give a mis-
ieading indication of the general posture of policy. 
\ 

4197 
M r . Frank E. Morris 
November 15, 1973 
Page 2 
T h e m e m b e r s of the Board have asked m e to convey 
their appreciation for the views communicated by your Bank 1 s 
directors in taking their action to reduce the discount rate. In 
view of the uncertainties in the economic outlook, the Board 
Would w e l c o m e a m o r e extensive description of your directors1 
analysis of prospective economic developments to assist it in 
policy deliberations, 
Yours sincerely, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 

IMS; -"ft 
T! 
C o r r e s T J o n c i e n c e 
To. 
fJ• AF-!D DP tOVERMDRS 
c-r THi: 
FEDER AL RES £RVE SY5TEM 
4498 
Item No. 15 
11/15/73 
D at 
-19.13 _ 
-feesicicnts of the PcderaLRgserve 
SubjCOt; 
Board Piscou n t Ratejection 
Banks 
' ° ^ N o r m a n d Bernard 
on November 15, 1 973 
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
The Board voted on November 15 to disapprove a pending 
action by one Reserve Bank to reduce the discount rate from 7-1 /2 
to 7-1/4 per cent. 
The substance of a letter outlining the Board's 
\ 
Reasons for its decision follows: 
In view of its appraisal of the economic outlook, the 
Board continues to believe that a reduction in the 
discount rate would not be desirable at this time. 
In reaching its decision, the Board took into account 
the .fact that short-term market rates were fluctuating 
well above the discount rate, and that the monetary 
aggregates had recently strengthened somewhat. 
The Board recognized that the energy situation is 
creating additional uncertainties in the outlook, 
but concluded that the economic implications are 
not yet sufficiently discernible to justify any mod-
ification of monetary policy. 
Beyond this con-
sideration, the Board felt that a reduction in the 
discount rate in the light of current market 
developments could give a misleading indication 
of the general posture of policy. 

1199 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 16 
11/15/73 
[12 CFR Part 222] 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Revised Notice of Hearing Regarding Underwriting of 
Real Estate Mortgage Guaranty Insurance 
The Board of Governors published in the Federal Register on 
October 26, 1973 (38 F.R, 29610), notice of an oral presentation to be 
figl J 
°n November 28, 1973, on the matter of the proposal to add to the 
list nf ^ 
. . 
L activities that the Board has determined to be closely related 
to b-»nl • 
"•"King or managing or controlling banks (Section 225.4(a) of Regula-
tion y^ t-v 
> tne following; "Engaging in the underwriting of real estate 
ttiott^-i 
*>age guaranty insurance." 
In connection with this notice, a significant number of the 
Members of -v 
L 
mortgage guaranty industry have petitioned that the Board 
deX*y thp v 
m e hearing until at least January 15, 1974, and that the Board 
^consjj _ • 
* i t s decision denying the prior requests for a formal hearing. 
The Board has reconsidered the matter and has decided to 
reschodul* tt 
LUG proceeding for January 24, 1974, in order that partici-
assured adequate time within which to prepare their presentations 
^ 
securc " 
c n c participation of expert witnesses. The Board has determined, 
hovev er 
sent 
ln tlle 
» that a formal hearing is not necessary for the parties to adequately 
their case but rather has adopted a procedure whereby participants 
ProceedingS will have opportunity for rebuttal. The proceeding 
ited to the issues specified in the prior notice. 

- 2 -
4500 
The Board has adopted the following procedures; 
(1) Any person interested in participating as a party in the 
bearing must file with the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received by November 30, 
1 5 7 3» a written request containing a statement of the nature of the 
Petitioner1 
interest in the proceedings, the extent of participation 
desired, a summary of the matters concerning which petitioner wishes to 
R i ve testimony or submit evidence, and the names and identity of witnesses 
Propose to appear. Individuals who have already filed this information 
V7xtb the Secretary, pursuant to the prior notice, need not file again. 
(2) All such parties (a) will be notified by the Secretary 
0 f the identity of the other parties and of all issues raised by them 
d n d (t>) will be invited to submit written material to be received by 
December 31, 1 9 7 3 . 
Material so submitted must be forwarded to all other 
pa*tie3% 
(3) Any party may submit written comments on material submitted 
b y ° t h e r Parties to be received by January 18, 1974, and must send copies 
thereri^ to all other parties. 
(4) Each party will be given a specified time, normally not 
to 
exceed 30 minutes, to present his views orally at the hearing to be 
hei 3 
Q before available members of the Board on January 24, .1974, at 10:00 a.m. 
t h e Board Room of its building on 20th and Constitution Avenue. N.W., 
V a 8 h i neton, D. c. 

...4501 
- 3 -
(5) All parties will be given until February 22, 1974, to submit 
such additional material related to issues raised at the proceeding as they 
^sire. 
Interested persons need not participate 
in the oral presentation 
to lv 
<™e their views considered but may submit their views in writing to be 
deceived by the Secretary no later than February 22, 1974. Written comments, 
as thev 
> are received, will be made available for inspection and copying in 
R°°m 1 0 2 0 of the Boardrs building. 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, November 16, 1973, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEAL) 
\ 

4502 
Item No. 17 
M 
H/15/73 
Aonsrca orrinisu coRRE'jpQKccMtr. 
T O T H E 
C O A W D 
November 23, 1973 
Richard A. Debs 
First Vice President: 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York ' 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Debs: 
Tliis is in response to your letter of September 13, 1973, 
attached memorandum in which you discuss the use of "Interbank Loan 
anticipations" ("1BLP")', a new money market instrument that has 
ceil developed by some commercial banks as a device to permit nonbank 
i^-ms t_0 participate in the Federal funds or interbank loan market. Use 
0 1 IBLP involves a bank that has sold Federal funds to another bank, there-
after "selling" or participating cut its loan contract for these funds to 
c nonbank third party, without notifying the purchasing bank of this sub-
sequent nonbank transaction. You state that the IBLP transaction described 
* Jove is not: being reported by either the "selling" or "purchasing" bank as 
a deposit subject to Regulations D and Q. 
You state that the staff of the New York Reserve Bank is of the 
' 
that the IBLP transaction violates the intent of the BoardTs inter-
pretation of February 1970 (12 CFR 217.137) to restrict nonbank participati 
^^ the Federal funds market and ycu suggest issuance by the Board of a 
PPlemental interpretation stating specifically that such transactions 
ai'e subject to Regulations D and Q. 
The Beard's interpretation (12 CFR 217.137) states, in part, 
"To assure that the exemption for liabilities to 
banks is not used as a means by which nonbanks may arrange 
through a bank to 'sell' Federal funds to a member bank 
that are not subject to Regulations D and Q, obligations 
Within the exemption must be issued to another bank for 
— o w n . cconnt. In view of this requirement, a member 
bank that 'purchases' Federal funds should take such action 
as may be necessary to ascertain the character (not 
necessarily the identity) of the actual 'seller' in order 
t o justify classification of its liability on the transaction 
as Federal funds purchased 'rather than as a deposit'." 
BIJARD O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F THE. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y 5 T E 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. ,?.0S5T 
!|!ii. • if: 

4503 
Richard A. Debs 
-2-
The Board regards IBLP transactions which result in nonbank third 
Parties gaining access to the Federal funds interbank loan market as 
contrary to the interbank exception contained in § 217.1(f) of Regula-
tion Q, § 204.1(f) of Regulation D and the Board's published interpretation. 
The Board, therefore, concurs in the opinion expressed in your letter that 
IBLP transactions involving nonbank third parties are subject to Regula-
tions D and Q. 
The outstanding interpretation requires the bank purchasing 
federal funds to ascertain the character of the actual "seller" of 
fnnds and the "selling" bank to disclose the nature of the actual lender 
if Federal funds transactions are subsequently executed for the accounts 
of others. Failure of a "selling" bank to provide such notice is deemed 
by the Board as an indirect violation of section 19 of the Federal Reserve 
Act and Regulation Q. The Board regards IBLP transactions as subject to 
the notice requirements set forth in its interpretation of February 1970, 
S o that a bank "selling" Federal funds must provide to the "purchasing" 
b a n k (1) notice of its intention to sell or participate out its loan con-
tact to a nonbank third party and (2) full and prompt notice to a purchasing 
bank whenever it (the selling bank) subsequently sells or participates cut 
*ts loan contract to a nonbank third party. 
The Board appreciates your bringing this matter to its attention 
and intends to publish the views expressed herein as a supplemental inter-
pretation to the Federal funds interpretation published in February 1970. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

S-2251-a 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 18 
11/15/73 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Federal Funds Transactions 
*•8 Nonbank participation in "Federal funds" market. 
The Board has recently considered whether the use of "inter-
bank ] 
A O an participations" ("IBLPs"), which involves participation by non-
)ank third parties in Federal funds transactions, comes within the 
n from "deposit" classification for certain obligations between 
banks „ 
contained in § 204.1(f) of Regulation D and § 217.1(f) of Regula-
tlotl Q 
A T 
* «n IBLP transaction is one through which a bank that has sold 
_ 
funds to another bank, subsequently "sells" or participates out 
lts loan contract to a nonbank third party without notifying the bank 
Purchased" its funds. 
The Board's 1970 interpretation regarding Federal funds trans-
13 
217.137) clarifies the meaning of "bank" as that term is used 
exemption for liabilities to banks. Paragraph (b) of that inter-
N a t i o n «-
states that the purpose of requiring that interbank transactions 
be 
tn the 
Lo another bank for its own account, in order to come within 
ePosit exemption, is "to assure that the exemption for liabilities 
t0 banks v 
not used as a means by which nonbanks may arrange through a 
at)k to » sell' Federal funds to a member bank that are not subject to 

4505 
- 2 -
D and Q". The Board regards transactions which result in 
third parties gaining access to the Federal funds interbank loan 
^rket as contrary to the interbank exemption contained in 5 217.1(f) 
o f Regulation Q, and § 204.1(f) of Regulation D regardless of whether 
th 
e nonbank third party is a party to the initial interbank transaction or 
hereafter becomes a participant in the transaction through purchase of 
a n _ 
0 r Part of the obligation held by "selling" bank. 
The Board regards the notice requirements set out in (§ 217.137) 
8 aPplicable to IBLP-type transactions as described herein so that a 
bank *» 
selling" Federal funds must provide to the purchasing bank (1) notice 
Of 
c s intention, at the time of the initial transaction, to sell or 
P rticipate out its loan contract to a nonbank third party, and (2) full 
prompt notice whenever it (the "selling" bank) subsequently sells or 
rticipates out Its loan contract to a nonbank third party. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
November 15, 19 73. 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 19 
11/15/73 
Pov rr tj , 
i 
November 19, 1973 
Immediate release 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
invited comment cn the. basic structure of the nation's payments 
chanism, and the appropriate roles of the Federal Reserve and other 
institutions in it. 
The comment was solicited in connection with proposed 
rGSulatory changes concerning the framework for the use of the 
^deral Reserve's inter-regional electronic funds transfer network, 
comment may be addressed not only to the technical details of 
th« Proposal but also to issues arising from electronic funds trans-
such as ownership and operation, conditions of access and 
Payment of the costs of such a system. 
The technical proposal is the latest in a series of steps 
aimed at reducing reliance on checks for handling money payments. 
It: is intended to delineate the legal rights and responsibilities 
of: 
t h e Parties to electronic transfer of funds using Federal Reserve 
^ i l i t i c s . 
The proposal would expand the Board's Regulation J, which 
Errantly governs the use of Federal Reserve facilities to collect 
checks. it i c ari outgrowth of the. Board's policy statement issued 
° n June 18, 1971, in which the Board gave high priority to modernizing 

4507 
« i 
the nation's payments mechanism, including development, in the interests 
°f an efficient, low cost payments system, of an electronic substitute 
making payments by check. 
Written comment on the proposed legal framework for electronic 
funds transfer will be received by the Board through March 8, 1974. The 
iengthy period for comment — 120 days ~ was given to accomodate 
comment not only on the specifics of the proposed changes in Regula-
tion J, but also upon broader issues such as: 
(1) The appropriate roles in the ownership and operation 
°f an electronic payments system — including adjuncts thereto — of 
(a) the Federal Reserve System, (b) other public bodies, and (c) indivi-
dual. or groups of private institutions, including commercial banks, 
automated clearing houses, credit card companies, thrift institutions, 
credit unions, the "bank wire, 1 and other institutions or organisations 
such as those specified in the attached proposal; 
(2.) The extent and conditions of access to the electronic 
funds transfer system by various kinds of depository institutions, 
of other financial institutions, as well as the terms of access; 
(3) How the cost of electronic funds transfer should be 
allocated, including such questions as whether the Federal Reserve 
s W i d Charge for the use of its facilities; if so, against whom 
sh°uld the charges be levied, whether they should cover all costs, 

. 4508 
- 3 -
and whether reserves maintained by member banks should be taken 
into account in any fee schedule which might differentiate between 
Federal Reserve member and nonmember institutions. 
The Board's efforts to modernize the payments mechanism 
based on estimates that check volume is increasing at a rate that 
double the total check volume during the next decade, from the 
°urrent estimate of 26 billion items yearly. Unless there is a large 
scale transition to electronic funds transfer, the growth in check 
Usage may eventually impede the flow of funds in the economy and make 
the use of checks slow and expensive. 
Under section 16 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
(°)), the Board of Governors Is authorized to promulgate regula-
tions governing the transfer of funds through Federal Reserve Banks, 
tlleir branches, and regional facilities. Since the inception of wire 
rQnsfers of funds — a forerunner of modern electronic funds transfers 
some 50 years ago, such transfers have been regulated by instructions 
ssued by the Board to the Federal Reserve Banks, and by Federal 
Reserve Bank operating circulars issued to member banks. 
The current proposal would expand the Board's Regulation J, 
^hich currently governs the collection of checks through the Federal 
Reserve. 'ihe existing Regulation J would become Subpart A of the 
G*Panded regulation. Two new sections, dealing with electronic transfer 

4509 
« 4 ** 
°f funds, propose rules under which Reserve Banks could accept and 
Oliver both credit and debit transfers of funds by wire, over the 
Federal Reserve's national communications network. 
Subpart B would codify, in regulation form, current 
Practices in the forwarding of credits — that is, the sending of 
funds from one point, to another — for member banks and their customers 
°ver Federal Reserve communications. To forward credits, a member 
bank authorizes the Federal Reserve to deduct an amount from its 
Reserve account, and to credit that amount to another commercial 
kank„ Present wire transfer volumes in most Reserve Banks have 
already exceeded a level at which manual processing is feasible. 
Placement of such low speed manual operations by high speed 
Processing is hearing completion. 
Subpart C proposes the legal framework within which member 
banks a n d ( : h e i r c u s t o m e r s Would use Federal Reserve facilities to 
funds electronically from another commercial bank (as they 
ri0w use other Federal Reserve facilities for the collection of funds 
ln°Ved by check) — a procedure that does not now exist. The proposed 
. r°ceas would thus duplicate — electronically and generally within a 
si 
° n£le business day « what a check accomplishes in a period or several 
day g 
,n 
• Ahe new procedure would involve: 
(a) A request initiated by a member bank that the Federal 
eserve use its facilities to collect an amount — by wire, usually 
the £ m ° day — from another bank; 

4510 
- 1 5 -
(b) Immediate credit given by the Federal Reserve to the 
requesting bank's reserve account of the amount It wishes fco collect 
from another bank; and 
(c) Use of the Federal Reserve's communications facilities 
t o notify the commercial bank from which the amount is to be collected 
that the Federal Reserve is deducting the amount from the bank's reserve 
account * 
In this process, both the credit given to the bank requesting 
collection, and the debiting of the paying bank's account with the 
federal Reserve, would be subject to reversal, within prescribed time 
limits, if the amount could not be collected. 
A copy of the proposed regulation is attached. 

4511 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 210] 
TRANSFERS OF FUNDS THROUGH FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
• Under Section 16 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 24S(o)), 
Board of Governors is authorized to promulgate regulations governing 
e transfer of funds through Federal Reserve Banks, their Branches, and 
e8ional facilities. Since the inception of wire transfers of funds—a 
forerunner of modern electronic funds transfers—some 50 years ago, such 
ransfers have been regulated only by instructions issued by the Board to 
tlle federal Reserve Bank and by Federal Reserve Bank operating circulars 
la 
' 
2UOcJ to member banks. 
The Board is currently considering the promulgation of regula-
t^Qv-. 
relating to this matter in the form hereinafter set forth, which 
Wlii , 
consistent with the expanding use of electronic funds transfers 
substitute for checks. This regulation is intended to delineate 
^ 
le8al rights and responsibilities of the parties and the procedures 
to bo 
used henceforth for such funds transfers within the Federal Reserve 
SyBt 
ln* At the same time, as the processing of check volume becomes 
costly to the economy, and as the technology of funds 
a i Gr s enters a new phase, the Board takes this opportunity to solicit 
° n t s on the basic structure of the nation's payments mechanism, 
t U n 8 the role of the Federal Reserve System and other institutions. 
The proposed new rule3 ace in the form of an amendment to 
gulation J. The present provisions relating to check collections would 

4512 
~ 2 -
become Subpart A of the Regulation. The rules regarding electronic trans-
f e r s °f fund8 through Federal Reserve facilities would be designated as 
Subpart B and Subpart C of the Regulation, dealing, respectively, with the 
tranafer8 o f creciits ancj debits. The rules regarding collection of checks 
a n d other items, contained in Subpart A, would not apply to the processing 
0f electronic items. 
Under the proposed regulation, a request for transfer of funds 
thr 
0uah a Reseive Bank initiated by one bank (the "transferor") for credit 
0 Mother bank (the "transferee") contained in certain approved media, 
° U l d be referred to as a "credit item" in Subpart B„ An instruction for 
i 
the 
e Payment of money by a "payor" bank, initiated by a "payee" bank, con-
a i n e d 
approved media, is designated as a "debit item" under Subpart C. 
would specify the terms and conditions under which such 
• would be processed for member banks by the Reserve Banks. 
In the past, telegraphic transfers of funds have been initiated 
Warily 
b 
Warily by means of an oral or written communication from the transferor 
and manually processed through Reserve Banks for subsequent delivery 
t o tho transferee bank. Present wire transfer volumes in most Reserve 
Baaks h 
nave already exceeded a level at which manual processing is feasible. 
^ispi 
•acement of such low speed manual operations by high speed electronic 
P to C G s , 
n6 is nearing completion. 
f°rth 
The context in which the proposed regulation is presented is 
in the Board's statement of policy issued on June 18, 1971, 
F° d e ral Reserve Bulletin, June, 1971 at 546-547). In that statement 

4513 
- 3 -
t"H 
T> Board assigned a high priority to the improvement of the nation's 
Payments mechanism and to the development of an electronic substitute 
f OT 
an overburdened check collection system. 
To aid in the consideration of further action in this area by 
Board, interested persons are given the opportunity herein, for a 
Period of 120 days, to submit relevant data, views, or arguments. The 
°ard wishes to encourage the widest possible participation in this 
Cess and may extend the period if circumstances warrant. In addition 
to comment on the specific proposal contained in the regulation, and 
in 
1Gc°gnition of the fact that Regulation J is but one part of a system 
has broad economic and financial implications, the Board invites 
ITUneut:a on other issues concerning electronic funds transfers, including; 
1. What are the appropriate roles in the ownership and 
operation of the various components and adjuncts of an 
electronic funds transfer system of (a) the Federal Reserve 
System; (b) other public bodies; and (c) private institu-
tions or groups thereof, including: commercial banks? 
automated clearing houses operated by clearing house 
v 
associations or other associations of commercial banks; 
bank or non-bank credit card companies; savings and loan 
associations; mutual savings banks; credit unions; the "bank 
wire"; and non-depository institutions such as: 
communication 
utilities or companies, electronic equipment vendors or 

4511 
- 
3 
-
service bureaus,and vendors generally whose- convenience 
or other credit extension may cause them to act as 
"concentrators" or otherwise to affect the flow of money 
payments. 
2. What should be the extent and conditions of access 
to the funds transfer system by various depository 
institutions? 
Should other financial or nonfinancial 
institutions have access to the system? 
If so, on 
what terms? 
3. How the cost of electronic funds transfers should 
be allocated, including such questions as whether the 
Federal Reserve should charge for any use of its trans-
fer facilities; if so, against whom should the charges 
be levied, whether they should cover all costs, and 
whether reserves maintained by member banks should be 
taken into account in any fee schedule which might 
differentiate between Federal Reserve member and 
nonmember in s t i t u t ions? 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
UnltG(i States Code, arid section 202.2(a) of the Rules of Procedure of the 
B°ard of Governors. 
Any material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, 
t 0 b e received not later than March 8, 1974. Such material will be made 
^ H a b l e for inspection and copying upon request, except as provided in 
Sc!ctl0n 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information. 

To implement its proposal, the Board is considering amending 
Regulation J [12 CFR Part 210] as set forth below: 
1. The title of Part 210 would be changed to read: "COLLECTION 
0 F CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS AND TRANSFERS OF FUNDS." 
2. The Table of Contents of Part 210 would be changed to read 
a s follows: 
SUBPART A—COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS 
i 
Authority and scope 
Definitions 
General provisions 
Sending of items to Federal Reserve Banks 
Sender's agreement 
Status and warranties of Federal Reserve Bank 
Presentment for payment 
Presentment of noncash items for acceptance 
Remittance and payment 
iv . 
0 , 1 0 Time schedule and availability of credits with respect to 
cash items 
Sec. 
210.1 
210.2 
210.3 
210.5 
210.6 
210.7 
210.8 
210.9 

210.11 
210.12 
210.13 
210.16 
210.15 
210.16 
Sec. 
210.50 
210.51 
210.52 
210.53 
210.54 
210.55 
210.56 
210.57 
210.58 
210.59 
210.60 
2 l < U l 
2 l < U 2 
210.63 
_ 4516 
- 6 -
Avaliability of proceeds of noncash items 
Return of cash items 
Chargeback of unpaid cash items and noncash items 
Timeliness of action 
Effect of direct presentment of certain warrants 
Operating letters 
SUBPART B—TRANSFERS OF FUNDS—CREDIT TRANSFERS 
Authority and scope 
/ 
Definitions 
General provisions 
Approved media for issuance, transmission or recording 
of transfer items 
Transferor's agreement 
Transferee's agreement 
Issuance of transfer items and telephonic requests for 
transfers of funds 
Handling of transfer items and telephonic requests 
Time limits 
Advice of credit 
Issuance and handling of requests for revocation of 
transfer items and telephonic requests 
Final payment, right to withdraw or use funds 
Timeliness of action 
Liability of a Federal Reserve Bank 
Operating circulars 

"7"* 
4517 
SUBPART C—TRANSFERS OF FUNDS—DEBIT TRANSFERS 
Sec» 
210.70 Authority and scope 
210.71 General provisions 
210.72 Definitions 
210.73 Receipt of debit items 
210.74 Handling of debit items 
10*75 Ordering bank's agreement 
2l0 7£ 
v./o Federal Reserve Bank agreement 
210.77 Payment 
2
1
0 T i m e schedule 
210'-79 Return 
2 1 0-80 Chargeback 
210 
, 81 Timeliness of action 
2 1 0 , ( 5 2 liability of a Federal Reserve Bank 
210.83 Operating circulars 
3. Part 210 would be amended by inserting immediately before 
§ 210.1 a heading reading: "SUBPART A—COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS 
4. Paragraph (a) of § 210.2 would be amended, but without change 
l n f°«tnotes, to read as follows: 
(a) The term "item" means any instrument for the payment of 
^ 0 n Gy» whether negotiable or not, which is payable in a Federal Reserve 

.. 4518 
district,!/ is sent by a sender or a nonbank depositor to a Federal Reserve 
Bank for handling under this Part, and is collectible in funds acceptable 
t o the Federal Reserve Bank of the district in which the instrument is 
Payable; except that the term does not include any check which cannot: 
collected at p a r n o r does it include any item as defined in 
§ 210.51(a) of this Part, 
5c Part 210 would be amended to change the words "this Part'5 
wherever they occur in §§ 210.1,-210.16 to read "this Subpart." 
6. Part 210 would be amended by adding after g 210.16 the 
folic 
wing: 
SUBPART B—TRANSFERS OF FUNDS—CREDIT TRANSFERS 
^ 210.50 —Authority and scope 
Pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of section 13 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. § 342), paragraph (f) of section 
1 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. § 464), paragraph 14 of section 16 
o f the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. § 248(o)), paragraphs (i) and (j) of 
Sctction 11 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. § 248(1) and (j)), and 
(°ther provisions of law, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Astern has promulgated this Subpart governing the handling by Federal 
Reserve Banks of transfer items and telephonic requests for transfers of 
funds (hereinafter referred to as telephonic requests). 

.. 4519 
§ 210.51—pcfinitiions 
As used in this Subpart, unless the context otherwise requires: 
(a) The term "item" means any instrument for the payment of money, 
issued, transmitted or received in accordance with this Subpart. 
(b) The term "instrument for the payment of money" means any 
Siting evidencing a right to the payment of money, addressed by one person 
t A 
another, and contained in or on any medium approved by § 210.53 of this 
Sul>part for the issuance, transmission or recording of transfer items. 
(c) The terra "transferormeans a member bank, a corporation 
V h i c h maintains an account with a Federal Reserve Bank in conformity with 
tllG requirements of § 211.7 of Part 211 of this Chapter (Regulation K), 
a Federal Reserve Bank, an international organization, or a foreign corre-
RPondent, or other institution authorized by a Federal Reserve Bank, to 
is 
S u e °r send a transfer item to a Federal Reserve Bank, or to request a 
<ecip-tax Reserve Bank by telephone to debit its account and transfer funds 
t o a designated transferee. 
(d) The term "transferee" means a member bank, a corporation 
vhipu 
v-n Maintains an account with a Federal Reserve Bank in conformity with 
the 
e requirements of § 211.7 of Part 2.11 of this Chapter (Regulation K), 
ueral Reserve Bank, an international organization, or a foreign corre-
p°ndent, or other institution maintaining an account on the books of a 
ederal Reserve Bank, which is designated in a transfer item or telephonic 
request to receive the amount thereof 

4520 
- 1 0 -
(e) The term "beneficiary" means a person, firm or corporation 
father than the transferee) designated in a transfer item or telephonic 
request to receive the amount thereof for his or its own use by credit to 
ar* account maintained with the transferee or otherwise from the transferee. 
(f) The term "transfer item" means either (i) an item issued by 
a transferor (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) to a Federal Reserve Bank 
f°r a debit to an account of the transferor at such Federal Reserve Bank 
for a credit to a transferee named in such item, or (ii) an item issued 
by a Federal Reserve Bank to another Federal Reserve Bank for credit to 
such other Federal Reserve Bank or any other transferee. 
(g) The terra "international organization" means any international 
°ro'3nizat;ion for which the Federal Reserve Banks are empowered to act ss 
depositaries or fiscal agents subject to regulation by the Board of 
G°Vernors of the Federal Reserve System and for which a Federal Reserve 
^ank has opened and is maintaining an account. 
(h) The term "foreign correspondent" means any of the following 
f°r Which a Federal Reserve Bank has opened and is maintaining an account: 
a foreign bank or banker, or foreign state as defined in section 25(b) of 
•tho- Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. § 632), or a foreign correspondent or 
*£ency referred to in section 14(e) of that Act (12 U.S.C. § 358). 
(i) The terms "nonbank transferor" and "nonbank transferee" 
tGsPectively mean any department, agency, instrumentality, independent 
Establishment; or office of the United States, or any corporation other 

4 5 ^ 
-11-
than a transferor or a transferee, which maintains or uses an account 
with a Federal Reserve Bank. Except as may otherwise be provided by any 
aPPllcable statutes of the United States or regulations issued or arrange-
^nts.made thereunder, the provisions of this Subpart and of the operating 
circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks applicable to a transferor or to 
a transferee, as the case may be, are applicable respectively to a nonbank 
transferor, and to a nonbank transferee. 
® 210.52—General provisions 
In order to afford to the banks of the country a direct, expedi-
tious, and economical system for the transfer of funds, each Federal 
Reserve Bank, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Subpart, shall receive, process and act upon transfer items and 
telephonic requests and, where appropriate, shall itself issue transfer 
items and telephonic requests; and the provisions of this Subpart and the 
derating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks shall be binding upon 
tl*annferors and transferees. 
§ 210.53—Approved media for issuance, transmission or recordingjof 
transfer items. 
A transfer item may be contained in any one of the following 
fcedia: 
(a) a letter, memorandum or other similar writing; 
(b) a telegram (including TWX, TELEX and any similar form of 
communications); and 

(c) any form of communication, other than voice, which is 
registered upon, or is in form suitable for being registered upon, magnetic 
tape, disc or any other medium designed to capture and contain in durable 
form conventional signals used for the electronic communication of messages. 
fj 210.54—Transferor's agreement 
By its action in issuing and sending any transfer item, contained 
any of the media specified in § 210.53, to a Federal Reserve Bank, or 
bV its action in telephonically requesting a Federal Reserve Bank to transfer 
funds to a designated transferee, a transferor shall be deemed: 
(1) to 
authorize said Federal Reserve Bank to apply a corresponding debit to its 
account; (2) to authorize said Federal Reserve Bank to handle and act 
uPort the transfer item or telephonic request and the Federal Reserve Bank 
3 t which the transferee's account is maintained to handle and act upon a 
transfer item or telephonic request of equivalent Import, in accordance 
with the provisions of this Subpart and the operating circulars of such 
federal Reserve Banks; and (3) to agree that such provisions shall, insofar 
a s they are made applicable thereto, govern the relationships between such 
transferor and such Federal Reserve Banks. 
^ 210.55—Transferee's agreement 
(a) A transferee, other than a Federal Reserve Bank, designated 
i n a transfer item or telephonic request to receive the amount thereof, by 
i t s action in maintaining or using an account at a Federal Reserve Bank, 
shall be deemed to authorize that Federal Reserve Bank to execute a transfer 
°f funds to it by making corresponding credit entries on its books. 

-3 3-
45/'3 
(b) A transferee, other than a Federal Reserve Bank, receiving 
a Federal Reserve Bank the amount of a transfer item or of a telephonic 
r°-quest and an advice of credit which designates a beneficiary to receive 
tJle amount, shall be deemed to agree (1) that it will promptly credit said 
beneficiary's account or otherwise make the amount of the transfer item or 
telephonic request available to the beneficiary for withdrawal or other 
UoG> and (2) that, if it is unable to do so because of circumstances beyond 
i t s control, it will give prompt notice of the facts to the Federal Reserve 
®ank from which it received such amount. 
^ 23.0.56—Issuance of transfer items and telephonic requests for 
transfer of funds 
(a) Any transferor, other than a Federal Reserve Bank, may, in 
accordance with the provisions of this Subpart and the operating circulars 
Federal Reserve Bank with which it maintains or uses an account, 
S S U G transfer items and telephonic requests to that Federal Reserve Bank 
° r the transfer of funds to transferees for their own use or the use of 
eneficiaries: Provided, That each transferor shall maintain with such 
^ e r a l Reserve Bank a daily net balance sufficient to cover the transfers 
of £ , 
nus debited to its account. 
(b) Any Federal Reserve Bank may, in accordance with the pro-
Vigj 
U s of this Subpart, issue transfer items or telephonic requests to 
n°ther Federal Reserve Bank for its own use or the use of any other 
tfa 
ns£oree or any beneficiary. 

r. ro/1 
(c) If, at any time during a Federal Reserve Bank's business day, 
Q transferor does not have a daily net balance sufficient to cover the 
transfers of funds debited to its account at the Federal Reserve Bank during 
that day, that Federal Reserve Bank shall have a security interest in any 
° r all assets of such transferor in its possession. 
(d) The Federal Reserve Banks may, from time to time, establish 
in their operating circulars the minimum or maximum dollar amounts, or both, 
which will be transferred without charge upon rcceipt of a transfer item 
telephonic request and may also impose reasonable service charges for 
transfers of funds below any such minimum so established. 
§ 210.57—Handling of transfer items and telejohoni^j^uests 
(a) Where the transferor and the transferee maintain or use 
accounts at the seme office of a Federal Reserve Bank, such office receiving 
a transfer item or telephonic request shall execute a transfer of funds 
by making corresponding debit and credit entries to those accounts. 
(b) Where the transferor and the transferee do not maintain or 
accounts at the same office of a Federal Reserve Bank, the office 
first receiving the transfer item or telephonic request shall debit the 
transferor's account dn the amount to be transferred and shall, as a 
transferor, issue a transfer Item or telephonic request of equivalent import 
t o the office at which the transferee's account is maintained; and that 
office shall exccute a transfer of funds to the transferee by making 
e°rresponding debit and credit entries. 

n fr 
1-5-
(c) When a Federal Reserve Bank having in clue time received a 
transfer item or telephonic request subsequently obtains knowledge that, 
for whatever reason, it will be unable to effectuate a transfer of funds 
t o the transferee on the day requested, said Federal Reserve Bank shall, 
within a reasonable time thereafter, notify the transferor of the delay. 
§ 210.58—Time, limits 
(a) Each Federal Reserve Bank shall include in its operating 
circulars a schedule of the time limits showing, with respect to inter-
district, interoffice, and intraoffice transfers of funds, the hours on 
^ch business day during which it will receive from transferors transfer 
items and telephonic requests for consummation on the day of receipt and 
m*y include therein a schedule of time limits during which it will receive 
transfer items and telephonic requests for consummation on the next business 
day. 
(b) Unless otherwise instructed, each Federal Reserve Bank handling 
^ansfer items and telephonic requests will use its best efforts to effect 
t h e transfers of funds to the designated transferees on the day of receipt: 
T h a t a u c h items and requests reach the Federal Reserve Bank not 
Xater than the time shown in its schedule of time limits, except that no 
^Presentation shall be made by a Federal Reserve Bank to the effect that 
transfers will be consummated on the day requested. 
(c) In emergency or other unusual circumstances, a Federal 
l^orve Bank may, in its discretion, receive after the hours shown in its 

45J-6 
Schedule of time limits transfer1 items and telephonic requests for consu?tima~ 
tion on that business day, but only upon the understanding, in the case of 
au interoffice or interdistrict transfer, that completion of each requested 
transfer shall be discretionary with the office at which the transferee's 
account is maintained. 
^10.59—Advices of credit and debit 
(a) Written advice of credit in respect of an executed transfer 
o f funds shall be given to the transferee by the Federal Reserve Bank with 
vaich it maintains or uses an account or, when the transferor or transferee 
h a s so requested, immediate advice of credit shall be given to the transferee 
by telegraph, telephone, or other form of electronic telecommunications. 
M e d i a t e advice may also be given where, in the judgment of said Federal 
eserve Bank, the nature of the transaction or the amount involved justifies 
SUc'n an action. 
(b) Written advice of debit in respect of a transfer of funds 
s h a U be given to the transferor by the Federal Reserve Bank with which 
c Maintains 
or uses an account where funds have been transferred, pursuant 
a telephonic request, to a transferee for the account of a beneficiary. 
( Mediate advice of debit (in lieu of written advice) may be given by 
telegraph, telephone, or other form of electronic telecommunications where, 
U t h G judgment of said Federal Reserve Bank, the nature of the transaction 
° r the amount involved justifies such action. If, within 10 business days 
0 f the transferor following receipt of the advice of debit, the" 
tr 
aUsferor fails to send to said Federal Reserve Bank written objection to 
°'Jch debit, the transferor shall be deemed to have approved the debit. 

4 5 2 7 
-17-
§ 210.60—Issuance and handling 
revocation pi 
items and telephonic requests 
(a) Any transferor including a Federal Reserve Bank that has issued 
a transfer item or a telephonic request may issue to the Federal Reserve 
Sank with which it maintains or uses an account a request for revocation 
o f such transfer item or telephonic request. A Federal Reserve Bank shall 
handle a request for revocation in accordance with the provisions of its 
°Perating circulars and this Subpart. 
(b) Intraoffice revocation. Where the transferor including a 
federal Reserve Bank and transferee maintain or use accounts at the same 
Federal Reserve Bank, that .Federal Reserve Bank upon receipt of a request 
f°r revocation: 
(1) shall cancel the transfer item or telephonic request, if the 
request for revocation is received at such time and in such manner as to 
a f£ord that Federal Reserve Bank a reasonable opportunity to act prior to 
t h e final payment of the transfer item or telephonic request in question; 
or 
(?-) at the transferor's request, shall send a request to the 
transferee t h a t u 
r c t u r n t h e f u n d s described in the request for revocation 
to 
• 
t b c transferor, if the request for revocation is received later than the 
1115 specified- in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph. 
(c) Interdistrict and inter^mc^,revocation. Where the transferor 
a n d transferee do not maintain accounts at the same Federal Reserve Bank 

° r at the same Federal Resei'Ve office, the transferor 's Federal Reserve Bank 
upon ireceipt of a request for revocation: 
(1) shall cancel the transferor's transfer item or telephonic 
request, if the request for revocation is received at such time and in 
S U ch manner as to afford it a reasonable opportunity to act prior to 
issuing its own transfer item or telephonic request; or 
(2) at the tr<msferor's request, shall issue a request for 
revocation of its transfer item or telephonic request to the Federal Reserve 
•ank at which the transferee's account is maintained, if the request for 
Revocation is received later than the time specified in subparagraph (1) 
oi- this paragraph; and 
(i) if the Federal Reserve Bank's request for revocation is 
Received at such time and in such manner as to afford the transferee's 
federal Reserve Bank a reasonable opportunity to act prior to final payment 
o f the Federal Reserve Bank's transfer item, the transferee's Federal 
Reserve Bank shall return the funds described in the request for revocation 
t o the transferor; or 
(ii) if the Federal Reserve Bank's request for revocation is 
, Reived later than the time specified in subdivision (i) of this flub-
PQragraph, transferee's Federal Reserve Bank, at the transferor's request, 
S h a H send a request to the transferee that it return the funds described 
in the request for revocation to the transferor, 

45 
19-
(c!) To correct an erroneous or otherwise irregular transfer of 
funds, a Federal Reserve Bank, upon its own initiative or at the request 
o f another Federal Reserve Bank, may send a request to the transferee to 
return funds previously transferred to it, 
§ 210.61—Final payment, rip.ht to withdraw orjis^_funds 
(a) A transfer Item or telephonic request issued by a transferor 
i s finally paid at the time an advice of credit is sent or telephoned to 
the transferee by a Federal Reserve Bank. 
(b) Subject to the right of a Federal Reserve Bank to apply the 
transferred funds to an obligation owed to the Federal Reserve Bank by 
transferee, credit given by a Federal Reserve Bank for a transfer of 
to the transferee's account becomes available for withdrawal as of 
right by the transferee upon the sending or telephoning of an advice of 
Crcdit by the Federal Reserve Bank. 
210.G2—Timeliness of action 
If, because of interruption of communications facilities, war, 
U r g e n c y conditions or other circumstances beyond its control, a Federal 
Reserve Bank shall be delayed beyond the time limits provided in this 
Subpart or in the Bank's operating circulars or by the applicable law of 
State in taking any action with respect to a transfer item or a 
telephonic request, including but not limited to making corresponding credit 
U n d ^bit entries on its books, sending appropriate advice of credit to the 
transferee and otherwise making funds available for withdrawal or other use, 

4530 
-'20* 
°r> Where necessary, effectively transmitting a transfer item or telephonic 
equest of equivalent import to the Federal Reserve Bank at which the 
transferee's account is maintained, the time of such Bank for taking or 
completing such action, as limited by this Subpart or by the operating 
circulars, or by the. applicable law of any State, thereby delayed shall be 
tended for such time after the cause of the delay ceases to operate as 
s^all be necessary to take or complete the action, provided the Bank exercises 
such diligence as the circumstances require. 
^ 210. (i3—Liabilltjy_of a Federal Reserve Bank 
(a) A Federal Reserve Bank, in connection with the matters 
Pecified i n t h i s <5ubpart o r its operating circulars, shall not have, nor 
s l l aU it assume, any responsibility to a transferee, a beneficiary, or any 
°ther party, except its immediate transferor nor shall a Federal Reserve 
have or assume any liability except for its own or another Federal 
"serve Bank's lack of good faith or failure to exercise ordinary care, 
ancI> except as herein provided, a Federal Reserve Bank shall not be liable 
£ 
° r the insolvency? neglect, misconduct, mistake, or default of another 
or person, including a transferor. 
(b) Subject to the limitations or. liability hereinabove stated, 
Where a Federal Reserve Bank's conduct, notwithstanding its exercise of 
Sood f a l t h a n d o r d i n a r y c a r e > results in a failure to credit the amount 
Of 
r 
a transfer item or telephonic request to the account of a transferee 
° n the day requested, unless otherwise instructed at the time notice is 

,4531-
-'21* 
Siven the transferor, the Federal Reserve Bank shall complete the transfer 
0 n the next business day with debits and credits posted to the appropriate 
accounts as of the day the transfer was to have been consummated. 
(c) Subject to the limitations on liability hereinabove stated, 
if the failure to credit the amount of the transfer item or telephonic 
request to the account of the transferee resulted from a failure on the 
pa*t of any Federal Reserve Bank to exercise ordinary care or to act in 
faithj the transferor shall have the right to recover from the 
federal Reserve Bank with which it maintains or uses an account any damages 
Proximately caused by such failure: Provided, however, That whether any 
S e q u e n t i a l damages are proximately caused by the Federal Reserve Bank's 
failure to exercise ordinary care or lack of good faith is a question of 
•act to be determined in each case. 
(d) The Federal Reserve Bank at which the account of the trans-
f e r ee i s maintained shall be deemed to agree to indemnify the Federal 
ReservG Bank at which the transferor's account is maintained for any loss 
°r expense sustained (including but not limited to attorneys' fees and 
e*Pense of litigation) as a result of the transferee's Federal Reserve 
B a n k's failure to exercise ordinary care or to act In good faith with 
tGspect to a transfer item or telephonic request issued to it by the 
transferor's Federal Reserve Bank at the request of the transferor. 

4532 
& 210.64—0perating circulars 
Each Federal Reserve Bank shall issue operating circulars (some-
times referred to as operating letters or bulletins), not inconsistent with 
this Subpart, governing the details of its funds transfer operation and 
containing such provisions as are required or permitted by this Subpart. 
SUBPART C—TRANSFERS OF FUNDS—DEBIT TRANSFERS 
§ 23.0.70—Authority and scope 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 13 of the Federal Reserve 
A c t, as amended (12 U.S.C., § 342), paragraph (f) of section 19 of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. § 464), section 16 of the Federal Reserve 
' A e t (12 U.S.C. § 248(c); 12 U.S.C. § 360), paragraphs <i) and (j) of 
Action 11 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. § 248(1) and (j)), and 
°ther provisions of law, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Astern has promulgated this Subpart governing the handling by Federal 
^serve Banks of debit items. 
§ 
210.71—General provisions 
In order to provide for the efficient and economical transfer 
>of bank balances on the books of the Federal Reserve Banks and as a means 
o f ^proving the nation's payments mechanism, the Board of Governors of 
t h e Federal Reserve System has promulgated this Subpart. Each Federal 
Reserve Bank, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in 
t h i s Subpart, shall receive, process, and act upon debit items in accordance 

4533 
-'23* 
v?ith the terms and conditions set forth in this Subpart, and the provisions 
o f this Subpart and applicable operating circulars of the Federal Reserve 
Banks shall be binding upon ordering banks and payor banks. 
§ 210.72--Definitions 
As used in this Subpart, unless the context otherwise requires: 
(a) The term "ordering bank" means a member bank issuing and 
sending a debit item to the Federal Reserve Bank with which it maintains 
ari account. 
(b) The term "payor bank" means the bank designated In a debit 
i 
item as the bank by which the amount of the item is payable and which is 
located in a Federal Reserve District..-" 
(c.) The term "debit item" means an instrument for the payment 
°f money, contained in any of the media approved by § 210.53 of Subpart B 
o f this Regulation, for payment by a payor bank and for credit to the 
°rdering bank, which is issued and sent by an ordering bank to a Federal 
R°serve Bank for handling under this Subpart. 
(d) The term "State" means any State of the United States, the 
S t r i c t of Columbia, or Puerto Rico, or any territory, possession or 
dependency of the United States. 
(e) The term "banking day" means any day during which a bank is 
°Per> to the public for carrying on substantially all its banking functions. 
^ T T ^ t h T ^ u r p o s e s of this Subpart, the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico 
!hal-l be deemed to be in or of the Second Federal Reserve District and 
and American Samoa shall be deemed to be in or of the Twelfth Federal 
eservQ District. 

4534 
-'24* 
(f) The term ,:wire" includes telephone, telegraph, and cable. 
S 210.73—Receipt of debit items 
(a) A debit item may be contained in any of the media approved 
b y § 210,53 of Subpart B that is acceptable to the Federal Reserve Bank 
handling the debit item and shall be deemed to be the same debit item 
notwithstanding that the medium in which it is contained may change during 
i t s handling or return under this Subpart. 
(b) An ordering bank may, if permitted by the Federal Reserve 
Bank with which it maintains an account, telephone a debit item issued 
b y the ordering bank to such Federal Reserve Bank. Such telephone message 
may be recorded by such Federal Reserve Bank. 
(c) Unless otherwise agreed, a Federal Reserve Bank shall receive 
d e b it items only from the head office of an ordering bank and shall send 
df-Ht items only to the head office of a payor bank. 
2 1 0 • 74—-Handling of debit items 
(a) An ordering bank may, in accordance with tbe provisions of this 
SubPart and the applicable operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Bank 
W l th which it maintains an account, issue and send debit items to that 
"Gdoral Reserve Bank. 
(b) Where the ordering bank and payor bank are located in the 
Qame Federal Reserve territory, the Federal Reserve Bank receiving the 
debit- item will transfer it to the payor bank over the Federal Reserve 
^^communications network or by any other means selected by such Federal 
R*so.rVe B a n k # 

4535 
-'25* 
(c) Uhere the ordering bank and payor bank are not located in 
the same Federal Reserve territory, the Federal Reserve office first 
receiving the debit item will transfer it over the Federal Reserve System 
telecommunications network to the Federal Reserve office of the territory 
Within which the payor bank is located, and such other Federal Reserve 
office will transfer the debit item to the payor bank over the Federal 
Reserve telecommunications network or by any other means selected by such 
federal Reserve office. 
J 210.75—Orderlng bank' s agreement 
For purposes of this section, the term "ordering bank" includes 
a federal Reserve Bank sending a debit item to another Federal Reserve Bank. 
(a) By its action in sending any debit item to a Federal Reserve 
Bank» an ordering bank shall be deemed to authorize said Federal Reserve 
]iank and the Federal Reserve Bank in whose district the debit item is payable 
t o handle and act upon the debit item, in accordance with the provisions 
°f this Subpart and the applicable operating circulars of such Federal 
Reserve Bank s. 
(b) An ordering bank shall be deemed to warrant to each Federal 
Ues*rve Bank handling the debit item: 
(1) that it is authorized to give 
t h e authority•specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and (2) that it 
i s authorized to obtain transfer of the funds in the manner called for by 
t h e debit item; and such ordering bank shall be deemed to agree to indemnify 
such Federal Reserve Bank for any loss or expense sustained (including 

4536 
-'26* 
b ut not limited to attorney's fees and expenses of litigation) resulting 
from the failure of such ordering bank to have the authority to give such 
authority and warranties or resulting from any action taken by the Federal 
Reserve Bank within the scope of its authority in handling the debit item. 
(c) Whenever any action or proceeding is brought in any court 
a£ainst a Federal Reserve Bank, based upon the alleged failure of such 
ordering bank to have the authority to give the authority and warranties 
sPecified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or upon any action 
taken by the Federal Reserve Bank within the scope of its authority in 
i d l i n g such a debit item, or upon any warranty or authority with respect 
thereto made by the Federal Reserve Bank consistently with § 210.76 of 
this Subpart, the Federal Reserve Bank may, upon the entry of a final 
Judfiment or decree in such action or proceeding, recover from the ordering 
b«nk the amount of attorney's fees and other expenses of litigation actually 
burred, and, in addition, any amount required to be paid by the Federal 
^serve Bank under such judgment or decree, together with interest thereon, 
b y charging the amount thereof to any account of the ordering bank maintained 
the books of the Federal Reserve Bank (of if the ordering bank is another 
l?oderal Reserve Bank, by entering a charge therefor against such other 
federal Reserve Bank), provided only (1) that the Federal Reserve Bank shall 
h a v e made reasonable demand on the ordering bank in writing to assume 
t h e defense of the action or proceeding, and (2) that the ordering bank 
8 h a U not have made any other provision acceptable to the Federal Reserve 

4537 
-'27* 
a n k for the payment of such amount. A Fed'eral Reserve Bank against which 
any such charge has been entered may recover from the ordering bank, in 
anV case herein provided, as if the action or proceeding against the Federal 
Rcserve Bank which entered the charge had been brought against it. The 
failure of any Federal Reserve Bank to avail itself of the remedy provided 
b y ^ i s paragraph shall not prejudice the enforcement by it in any other 
banner of the indemnity agreement referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Action. 
§ 
J 
7G—Federal Reserve Bank agreement 
By its action in transferring any debit item, a Federal Reserve 
B a n k shall be deemed to warrant to the payor bank and to any other Federal 
n 
serve Bank handling such debit item that it is authorised to obtain 
Payment of the funds called for by the debit item, but otherwise such a 
r ai Reserve Bank shall not have, and shall not be deemed to assume, 
atly liability to such payor bank or Federal Reserve Bank except for ics 
0 W u lack of good faith or failure to exercise ordinary care. 
§ ^iQ.77—-Payment 
A payor bank becomes accountable for the amount of each debit 
tGln received by it from a Federal Reserve Bank at the close of the payor 
B A N K ' S banking day on which the debit item was GO received-^ if it retains 
I L t ***** item received by a payor bank shall be deemed to have been 
otip 
Gcl by the bank on its next banking day if the item is received under 
for 
t h e following circumstances; 
(1) on a day other than a banking day 
h 0 u
 U > 
o r 
o n a banking day for it, but (a) after its regular banking 
of 
o r (b) after a "cut-off hour" established by the Federal Reserve Bank 
0 r
 t h e district in wliich the payor bank is located, or (c) during afternoon 
°VGning periods when it is open for limited functions only. 

4538 
-'28* 
GU(:h item after the close of such banking clay, unless prior to such time, 
it pays for the item as herein provided. Payment therefor shall be effected 
° n such day or receipt by a debit to an account on the books of a Federal 
Reserve Bank. If the banking day on which an item is received by a payor 
bank j.s n o t a banking day for the Federal Reserve Bank from which the item 
w a s received, any payment made hereunder shall be effected on the banking 
day of both such Federal Reserve Bank and such payor bank next following 
t*le (lay of receipt of such item. 
§ 210.78—Time schedule 
(a) Each Federal Reserve Bank shall include in its operating 
1 
circulars a time schedule showing when the amount of any debit item received 
b y it will be counted as reserve for the purposes of Part 204 of this 
haPter (Regulation D) and bccome available for withdrawal or other use 
b y the ordering bank. The ordering bank will be given either immediate 
credit or deferred credit for such amount in accordance with such time 
schedule. Notwithstanding the provisions of its time schedule, a Federal 
'-serve Bank may in its discretion refuse at any time to permit the with-
rawal or other use of credit given for any debit item for which the 
f e d e r Q l Reserve Bank has not yet received payment in actually and finally 
E l e c t e d funds. 
(b) A Federal Reserve Bank will use its best efforts to transmit 
d e b i t items on the day of receipt: Provided, That the debit Item is received 
b y a Federal Reserve Bank not later than the time shown in the time schedule 

;. 4539 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, except that no representation 
shall be made by a Federal Reserve Bank to the effect that debit items 
will be transmitted on the day of receipt, 
5 210.79—Return 
(a) A payor bank that receives a debit item from a Federal Reserve 
J>ank and that pays for such debit item as provided in this Subpart shall 
nave the right to recover any payment so made if, before it lias finally 
Paid the debit item, it returns the debit item before the close of business 
its banking day next following the banking day of rcceipt. In accordance 
the provisions of this Subpart and the applicable operating circulars 
o f the Federal Reserve Banks, debit items shall be returned to the Federal 
Reserve Bank from which they were received in a form acceptable to such 
federal Reserve Bank, and in the same medium in which they were received 
ky the payor bank unless the payor bank obtains the written authority of 
such Federal Reserve Bank to return debit items in another medium specified 
i n 5 210.53 of Subpart B. In the event such medium is other than by the 
federal Re 
serve telecommunications network to the Reserve Bank, wire advice 
nonpayment shall be given as to any debit item of $1,000 or over. 
; 
(b) Any payor bank which receives a credit or obtains a refund 
the amount of any payment made by it in respect of a debit item 
deceived by it from a Federal Reserve Bank shall be deemed (1) to warrant 
t o such Federal Reserve Bank, to any other Federal Reserve Bank handling 
item and to the ordering bank that it took all action necessary to 

4510 
-30-
entitle it to recover such payment within the time or times limited therefor 
hy the provisions of this Subpart, and (2) to agree to indemnify any such 
Federal Reserve Bank for any loss or expense sustained (including but not 
limited to attorneys' fees and expenses of litigation) resulting from its 
action in giving such credit or making such refund, or in making any charge 
to» or obtaining any refund from, the ordering bank. No Federal Reserve 
Bank shall have any responsibility for determining whether the action 
hereinabove referred to was timely. 
5 210.80—Chargeback 
If a Federal Reserve Bank does not receive payment in actually 
aad finally collected funds for any debit item for which it gave credit, 
the amount of such item shall be charged back to the party receiving such 
credit. If ouch a chargeback is made to the account of an ordering bank, 
Such ordering bank shall not have any right of recourse upon, interest in, 
° r right of payment from, any reserve account or other funds or property 
o f the payor bank in the possession of a Federal Reserve Bank. Wo authorize 
tiou to charge upon any reserve account or other funds or property in the 
P°socssion of a Federal Reserve Bank, issued for the purpose of paying 
f°r any debit item handled under the terms of this Subpart, will be acted 
uPon after receipt by such Federal Reserve Bank of notice of suspension 
° r closing of the bank making the payment for its own or another's account. 

4511 
§ 2,10 >31—Timeliness of action 
If, because of interruption of communication facilities, suspension 
of payments by another bank, war, emergency conditions or other circumstances 
beyond its control, any banl; (including a Federal Reserve Bank) shall be 
delayed beyond the time limits provided in this Subpart or the operating 
circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks, or prescribed by the applicable 
law of any State in taking any action with respect to a debit item, the 
time of such bank, as limited by this Subpart or the operating circulars 
of the Federal Reserve Banks, or the applicable law of any State, for 
taking or completing the action thereby delayed shall be extended for such 
time after the cause of the delay ceases to operate as shall be necessary 
to take or complete the action, provided that the bank exercises such 
diligence as the circumstances require. 
3 210.82—LiaMHtv of a Federal Reserve Bank 
A Federal Reserve Bank will act only as agent of its ordering 
hank, or of a Federal Reserve Bank transmitting debit items to it, with 
respect to the handling of debit items under this Subpart. A Federal 
Reserve Bank will not act as the agent or subagent of nor shall it assume 
any responsibility to any other person. A Federal Reserve Bank, in connec-
tion with the matters specified in this Subpart or its operating circulars, 
shall not have, nor shall it assume, any liability to an ordering bank, or 
another Federal Reserve Bank, except for its own lack of good faith or 
failure to exercise ordinary care. 

4542 
-32-
§ 210.83—Operating circulars 
Each Federal Reserve Bank shall issue operating circulars 
(sometimes referred to as operating letters or bulletins), not inconsistent 
with this Subpart, governing the details of its debit item operation and 
containing such provisions as are required or permitted by this Subpart. 
>V 
v'c 
'A 
& 
By order of the Board of Governors } November 15, 1973, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B, Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[•SEAL] 
