MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 27, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, February 27, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Daane 
Brimmer 
Sheehan 
Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Feldberg of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. Pursuant to a recommendation of the Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum of February 21, 1973, 
in which the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans 
and the System Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism 
concurred, the Board unanimously approved the expansion of the New Orleans 
regional clearing area and an additional 20 positions in the present 
employment ceiling. A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta is attached as Item No. 1. 
Pursuant to a recommendation of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in a memorandum dated February 21, 1973, in which the 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans and the 
PRESENT: Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr, 
Mr. 

2/27/73 
-2-
System Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism concurred, 
the Board unanimously approved the proposal of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond to establish a regional clearing center at the Richmond 
Bank, which would result in an increase of 34 positions in the present 
employment ceiling. A copy of the letter sent to the Bank is attached 
as Item No, 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation of the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum of Febru-
ary 16, 1973, in which the Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
and Building Plans concurred, that the Board authorize the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York to lease a building to relocate the Long Island 
clearing facility and to make the necessary expenditures for alterations 
and start-up costs. This action included authorization for an over-
budget expenditure not to exceed $599,000 for the first year building costs. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of the First 
National Holding Corp., Atlanta, Georgia, to acquire Woods-Tucker Leasing 
Corporation, Hattiesburg, Mississippi, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of National 
Bancshares Corporation of Texas, San Antonio, Texas, to acquire shares 
of the successor by merger to The First National Bank of Eagle Pass, 

. 688 
2/27/73 
-3-
Eagle Pass, Texas, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
State Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to Somerset Hills & County National Bank, Basking 
Ridge, New Jersey, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, 
the application of Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, Boston, 
Massachusetts, to acquire shares of Caribbean American Service Investment 
and Finance Company Limited, to be formed in Georgetown, Cayman Islands. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bivens Gardens 
Bank, Gainesville, Florida, a proposed new bank, for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached 
as Item No. 8. 
The Office of Management and Budget had requested the Board's 
views on a legislative proposal of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
that would provide for creation of a new category of investment vehicles 
entitled Foreign Portfolio Sales Corporations. The proposed FPSC's 
would be domestically-chartered, SEC-regulated mutual funds whose shares 
would be sold only to foreigners. In a memorandum of February 23, 1973, 
Governor Brimmer recommended that OMB be informed that the Board concurred 

2/27/73 
-5-
in the submission to Congress of the proposed legislation and, upon 
enactment of the proposal, would be prepared to amend the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines to exempt foreign assets of an 
FPSC. The relationship of margin requirements to the FPSC's was 
discussed in a memorandum of February 23 from Miss Hart. The Board 
unanimously approved Governor Brimmer's recommendation and the Office 
of Management and Budget was subsequently informed by telephone of 
the Board's support of the proposed legislation. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Governor Brimmer then reported on recent conversations with 
Mr. Volcker, Under Secretary of the Treasury for Monetary Affairs, on 
possible modifications of the rules on capital outflows from the United 
States. This was in connection with Secretary of the Treasury Shultz's 
statement on dollar devaluation made on February 12, 1973. 
Governor Robertson reported on progress being made by Bank of 
the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, in working out its problems. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
// 
/ 
Secretary 

B C A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
..-•y v*. 
or the 
Item No. 
^ t r S f e 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2/27/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D O R E S 3 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1973 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
The Board of Governors approves the proposal 
to expand the New Orleans regional clearing territory 
with an accompanying increase of 20 positions in the 
present employment ceiling. 
The Board understands that appropriate expendi-
tures to implement the proposal have been included in the 
January-June 1973 budget. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

* c i}. ' 
" • 
691 
Item No. 2 
BOARD GF G O V E R N O R S 
2/27/73 
• * • •.. 
HF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C, 20551 
A D D R E S D 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R ^ E b P O N D E N C C 
T O T H E 
f l D A r < O 
February 27, 1973 
Mr,, Robert P9 Black, 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 
23261 
Dear Mr. Blaclc: 
The Board of: Governors has approved 
the proposal by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond to establish a regional clearing cen-
ter serving the state of Virginia. An increase 
of 34 positions in the present employment 
ceiling is also approved. 
The Board understands that appropri-
ate expenditures to implement: the proposal have 
been included in the January-June 1973 budget. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A, Greenspan 
Assistsnt Secretary 

i'SJZ 
Item No. 3 
2/27/73 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R S E S P O N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R O 
February 27, 1973 
Mr. William F. Treiber 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York. New York 
10045 
Dear 1-lr. Treiber: 
The Board has considered your request to relocate the 
Long Island regional check processing center facilities to a more 
suitable site and to make the necessary expenditures for altera-
tions and start-up costs, as described iri your letter of 
January 12, 1973, and other supporting material. 
The Bank is authorized an cver-budget expenditure of not 
to exceed $599,000 for the first year building costs to (!) lease 
the recommended building located at 113 South Service Road, 
Jericho, New York ($220,000), (2) make the necessary building 
alterations, with the understanding that the computer area will be 
expanded at a future date when additional space is needed ($255,000), 
(3) purchase necessary furniture and equipment ($74,000) and 
(4) provide additional contract guard service ($50,000). 
Very truly yours. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

Item No. 4 
2/27/73 
6 3 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL HOLDING CORP. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Woods-Tucker Leasing Corporation 
First National Holding Corp., Atlanta, Georgia, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all 
of the outstanding common stock of Woods-Tucker Leasing Corporation, 
Hattiesburg, Mississippi ("Company"). The Company engages in the 
business of leasing personal property (fixtures and equipment) on 
a "full pay-out basis", and acting as agent, broker, or adviser 
in the leasing of such property. These activities have been deter-
mined by the Board to be closely related to the business of banking 
(12 CFR 225.4(a)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public inter-
est factors, has been duly published (37 Federal Register 28326). 
The time for filing comments and views has expired, and none has 
been timely received. 
The Company, which was organized in 1970, had net leases 
outstanding of $1.7 million on June 30, 1972, from business gener-
ated by its own employees and agents in Alabama, Louisiana and 
Mississippi. It does no business outside these States. 

694 
-2-
Applicant's banking subsidiary, First National Bank of 
Atlanta ("First National"), is the third largest bank in the State 
of Georgia, with deposits of $870.1 million, representing 9.9 per 
cent of the total State deposits as of June 30, 1972. It is the 
only subsidiary of Applicant which engages in financial leasing and 
does so only in the State of Georgia. It has no leases outstanding, 
and does not actively seek business in the Company's market, i.e., 
Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi. Consequently, no present 
competition would be eliminated by the acquisition. 
Company is relatively small, and its growth is limited 
by available financing. It is not likely to expand its leasing 
activities into Georgia. First National is capable of expanding 
into Company's market, but there are a number of regional and 
national competitors there. Barriers to entry into the product and 
geographic markets are not great, and there are several potential 
entrants. It appears, therefore, that removal of First National, 
as a possible de novo entrant, would not be adverse to probable 
future competition. In brief, no adverse competitive effects would 
result from this acquisition. 
Public benefits are likely to result from the acquisition, 
inasmuch as Applicant is apparently able to provide more funds and 
at more favorable rates than those now obtainable by Company; this 
could enable Company to compete more effectively in its present 
market, to expand, and, possibly, to lower its rates. 

695 
-2-
There is no evidence that consummation of the proposed trans-
action would result in undue concentration of resources, conflicts of 
interest, unsound banking practices, or decreased or unfair competition. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
determination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) 
of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modifica-
tion or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of 
its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,"" effective February 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
and Governor Mitchell. 

Item No. 5 
2/27/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B U G 
NATIONAL BANCSHARES CORPORATION OF TEXAS 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
National Bancshares Corporation of Texas, San Antonio, Texas, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The First National 
Bank of Eagle Pass, Eagle Pass, Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which 
Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate 
the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
acquisition of shares of the successor organization is treated herein as 
the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the eighth largest multi-bank holding company in Texas, 
controls two banks located in the San Antonio area with aggregate deposits 
of $295.2 million, representing .98 per cent of total deposits of commercial 
banks in the State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved through January 22, 
1973.) Acquisition of Bank ($16,7 million of deposits) would increase 

697 
-2-
Applicant's share of deposits in the State insignificantly and its 
ranking among banking organizations in the State would be unchanged. 
Bank, which operates one office in Eagle Pass, Texas, is the 
largest of two banks in the Maverick County banking market and controls 
approximately 71 per cent of the deposits of commercial banks in that 
area. Bank is located approximately 140 miles southwest of Applicant's 
two subsidiary banks in the San Antonio area. No competition exists 
between Bank and either of Applicant's subsidiary banks. Thus, con-
summation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect 
on existing competition. Furthermore, in view of the distance separating 
Applicant's present subsidiary banks and Bank and the size of Bank, it 
appears unlikely that any competition would develop between Bank and Appli-
cant's subsidiary banks in the future. Since the population-to-banking 
office ratio in Bank's market is below the State average, it appears unlikely 
that Applicant would attempt de novo entry into the Maverick County market. 
The present financial and managerial resources and prospects 
of Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are regarded as satisfactory 
and consistent with approval. Entry of Applicant should provide a source 
of expanded and more sophisticated financial services to residents of the 
Maverick County banking market. Convenience and needs considerations are 
therefore consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 

: 698 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective February 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Mitchell. 

6 9 9 
Item No. 6 
2/27/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL STATE BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National State Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of the 
successor by merger to Somerset Hills & County National Bank, Basking Ridge, 
New Jersey ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a means to facilitate acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. 
Therefore, the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor bank is 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in New Jersey, 
controls seven banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.2 billion, 
representing 6.7 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the 
State.Applicant's acquisition of Bank ($59.6 million in deposits) would 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect bank holding company 
lormations and acquisitions approved by the Board through December 31, 1972. 

increase its share of commercial bank deposits in the New Jersey by only 
0.3 percentage points; its rank among banking organizations in the State 
would be unchanged; and there would be no significant increase in the con-
centration of banking resources in the State. 
Bank operates two offices in the New Brunswick banking market 
where it is the seventeenth largest of twenty banks, controlling approximately 
0.5 percentage points of market deposits. Bank also operates five offices 
in the Plainfield banking market and, with 9.4 per cent of market deposits, 
is the fourth largest of seventeen banks in that market. 
One of Applicant's subsidiary banks, The Edison Bank, N.A. ("Edison 
Bank"), operates an office in the New Brunswick banking market located 
2.4 miles from an office of Bank. Edison Bank controls 9.6 per cent of 
deposits in the New Brunswick banking market and is the third largest bank 
in that market. Applicant's acquisition of Bank would neither significantly 
increase the concentration of deposits in that market nor give Applicant 
a dominant position in that market. Bank derives 4.1 per cent of its loans 
and 4.2 per cent of its deposits from the area served by Edison Bank. 
Some existing competition among these two banks would, therefore, be 
eliminated upon consummation of this proposal. However, since Bank and 
Edison Bank are separated by the Raritan River and seven offices of three 
competing banks and because competition among the 17 banks in the market 
seems keen, it does not appear that a significant amount of existing or 
potential competition in the New Brunswick market would be eliminated upon 
consummation of this proposal. 

701 
-2-
Applicant is not presently represented in the Plainfield market 
and none of its subsidiary banks derive a significant amount of their deposits 
or loans from that market. Although consummation of the proposal would 
foreclose the possibility that Applicant would enter the market de novo or 
through branches of its present subsidiaries, it would not raise significant 
barriers to entry into this market by other holding companies, since about 
fifteen other independent banks would be available for acquisition. 
Additionally, due to the highly competitive structure of the Plainfield 
market (there are twenty competing banks), foreclosure of the possibility 
of Applicant's entry would have no significant adverse effects on potential 
competition in the Plainfield market. On the basis of these and other facts 
of record, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would not result in significant adverse effects upon existing or potential 
competition in any relevant area nor would it adversely affect any competing 
bank. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
subsidiary banks and Bank are regarded as generally satisfactory and the 
future prospects of each appears favorable. Upon approval of this appli-
cation, Applicant proposes to add accounts receivable financing, commercial 
term loans, construction loans, and international banking services to the 
services presently offered by Bank. Applicant also proposes to improve 
the trust and data processing services presently offered by Bank. Although 
it appears such services are presently available in Bank's area, the 
increased and improved services that would be offered by Bank as a result 

-2-
702 
of its affiliation with Applicant would provide area residents another 
competitive alternative for specialized banking services. Considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are 
consistent with and lend some weight toward approval of the application. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective February 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting; Chairman Burns and 
Governor Mitchell. 

703 
• •oo'fVovVV 
Item No. 
BOARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
2/27/73 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
O J P ^ V ^ ^ L I P ; 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
• ^ 
I N f M 
* 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C f l R R E S P Q N O E N C S 
'-'f^r^f-'' 
February 27, 1973 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
100 Federal Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02110 
Gentleman: 
As requested in your letter of December 13, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("BOFC"), 
to purchase and hold all of the shares of Caribbean American 
Service Investment arid Finance Company Limited, ("CASIFCO"), to be 
formed in Georgetown, Cayman Islands, at a cost of approximately 
$200,000, provided $10,000 cf the shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
The Beard's consent to the. proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CASIFCO by BOFC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
ri) That BOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CASIFCO if CASIFCO at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the. consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if 
CASIFCO establishes any branch or agency or takes 
any action or undertakes any operation in the 
Cayman Islands or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to BOFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
BOFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of CASIFCO as it may 
require from time to time; and 

704 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
- 2 -
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
CASIFCO be reported under Section 21I08(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if CASIFCO 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Preserve Act* 
- -
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1; 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by CASIFCO in the 
Cayman Islands in the currency of that country4 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
queued that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Asso-
ciation, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of CASIFCO. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The First National Bank of Boston and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

705 
BOARD OF 
GOVERNORS 
.-'of co.;,'.. 
OF THE 
Item No. 8 
r r r r ^ r - m , , 
. . 
2/27/73 
, 
-
m
m
\
m 
••f^R-cf;:--
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2055! 
A r"»DR E S S 
• F F i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Bivens Gardens Bank 
Gainesville, Florida 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Bivens Gardens Bank, Gainesville, 
Florida, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appro-
priate State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the per-
mission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit-
any change to be made in the corporate powers exer-
cised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and tc its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilitres. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $900,000, and other capital funds of 
not less than $270,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

Bivens Gardens Bank 
- 2 -
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, will 
be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve Eank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved in order that it may be 
determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's status 
as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution, together 
with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 
3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate, amount 
of Federal Preserve .Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 6 months from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued co 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial, and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of 
your bank means for making the services of the System most useful to 
you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 
