MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 26, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 10 
Amendment to Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits. 

J2845 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 26, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Conne11, General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Henry, Assistant Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
y 
Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

7/26/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco on July 19, by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on 
July 23, and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on July 24, 1973, 
of the rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Savannah 
Bank & Trust Company of Savannah, Savannah, Georgia, to invest in 
bank premises and to issue a capital note. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Florida 
Bancorporation (now United First Florida Banks, Inc.), Tampa, Florida, 
to acquire shares of The Southside Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Peters-
burg, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Barnett 
Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Delray Beach National Bank and Fidelity Bank of West Delray Beach, both 
in Delray Beach, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflect-
ing that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Commerce 

s 
7/26/73 
-3-
Bank of Independence, National Association, Independence, Missouri, 
a proposed new bank, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
Pennsylvania Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to acquire 
shares of Continental Finance Corporation of America, Aurora, Colorado 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting during the following 
discussion. 
Fort Worth National Corporation. 
In a memorandum of June 26, 
1973, the Board's staff recommended approval of the applications of 
The Fort Worth National Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, to retain 
indirect ownership of shares of Bank of Fort Worth and Riverside State 
Bank, both in Fort Worth, Texas. The shares in each bank are held by 
the trust department of The Fort Worth National Bank, the applicant's 
lead banking subsidiary. 
After discussion it was decided that this application should 
be given further consideration at a future Board meeting. 
Real and personal property leasing. 
In December 1972, the 
Board published for comment a revised proposal to amend Regulation Y 

2848 
7/26/73 
-4-
that would permit bank holding companies to engage in both real and 
personal property leasing, subject to substantially the same condi-
tions described in a proposed amendment to Regulation Y published for 
comment in February 1972. These conditions were primarily designed 
(1) to assure that each lease transaction is the equivalent of an 
extension of credit, (2) to prohibit bank holding companies from owning 
property for an undue length of time, and (3) to prevent bank holding 
companies from speculating on the appreciation of real property. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum dated February 28, 1973, 
summarized comments received on the December 1972 revisions. 
In a 
memorandum dated July 18, 1973, the staff recommended that the Board 
publish further proposed revisions for comment and schedule a hearing 
with respect to the proposal to amend Regulation Y. 
After discussion of some of the technicalities of the latest 
revisions, particularly those relating to the computation of full payout 
°f the lessor's acquisition costs, the Board unanimously approved publi-
cation for comment of a further revised proposal to amend Regulation Y 
a
nd authorized the Secretary to schedule a hearing on the revised 
Proposal. 
It was understood that the Secretary would canvass the Board 
members regarding an appropriate date for the hearing. Attached under 
Item No. 6 are copies of the press release and the Federal Register 
notice regarding the proposed amendment to Regulation Y , as revised, 
a
nd hearing scheduled for September 12, 1973, in the Board Building. 

2849 
7/26/73 
-5-
BankAmerica Corporation. Today's agenda called for consid-
eration of the application of BankAmerica Corporation, San Francisco, 
California, to acquire shares of GAC Finance, Inc., Allentown, Pennsyl-
vania. The Board's staff recommended approval of the application 
conditioned upon divestiture of GAC's California offices. 
The following documentation had been distributed prior to the 
meeting today: 
(1) memorandum dated July 17, 1973, from 
Messrs. Leavitt and Ryan. 
(2) memorandum dated July 19, 1973, from 
the Division of Research and Statistics. 
(3) memorandum dated July 24, 1973, from 
the Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation. 
(4) memorandum dated July 25, 1973, from the 
Legal Division. 
(5) memorandum dated July 25, 1973, from 
Mr. Leavitt. 
A request was made that Board members also receive copies of 
a letter and enclosed memorandum, both dated January 22, 1973, prepared 
respectively by Messrs. Piderit and Doumlele of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York and sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
The key issues in BankAmerica
1
s application to acquire GAC 
involved (1) public benefits that would be derived if the application 
were approved, (2) its effect on competition, (3) capital adequacy of 
the applicant's subsidiary bank, Bank of America National Trust and 

2 8 5 0 
7/26/73 
-6-
Savings Association, (4) GAC's financial condition and the possible 
consequences of its failure, and (5) whether approval of this applica-
tion would give rise to an undue concentration of resources and econo-
mic power. 
After discussion of these issues, particularly of the question 
of concentration of resources, the Board was unable to reach a consen-
sus. 
It was decided that Governors Daane and Holland would be requested 
to return from vacation so that the full Board could meet tomorrow to 
consider the application further. 
D. H. Baldwin Company. 
In a memorandum dated July 6, 1973, 
the staff recommended approval of the application of D. H. Baldwin 
Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, to acquire shares of Nordenco, Inc., and 
indirectly of North Denver Bank, both in Denver, Colorado. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum dated July 24, 1973, noted 
that this application represented the first test of the Board's views 
with respect to an application by a one-bank holding company, with 
authority to retain substantial nonapproved, nonbanking interests until 
1981, to acquire an additional bank with operations in the same geographic 
area and the same product lines as the nonapproved, nonbanking subsid-
iary (in this case Empire Savings and Loan Association, Denver, Colorado). 
The Legal Division memorandum also transmitted a letter of protest 
raising the issue of unfair competition in connection with Baldwin's 

2851 
7/26/73 
-7-
control both of the savings and loan association and of its present 
and proposed banking interests. 
Discussion focused on the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition as well as on the advisability of approving a bank acqui-
sition in a market in which the applicant already controlled a major 
bank and a major savings and loan association. The opinion was 
expressed that approval of this application could be conditioned upon 
Baldwin's divesting itself of Empire Savings and Loan Association at 
an early date, but that it would be preferable that Baldwin offer to 
divest itself of Empire. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that 
Mr. Leavitt would inform Baldwin of the Board's concern about Baldwin's 
intention to retain Empire Savings and Loan Association until 1981, 
and of its preference that Baldwin commit itself to an earlier divesti-
ture. It was also understood that further consideration would be 
given to this application at tomorrow's meeting. 
Hathdel Inc. In a memorandum of June 13, 1973, the staff recom-
mended approval of the application of Hathdel Inc., New Bedford, Massa-
chusetts, to become a bank holding company by acquiring the assets and 
assuming the liabilities of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., a registered one-
bank holding company presently holding 97.7 per cent of the voting shares 
of The Illinois National Bank & Trust Company of Rockford, Rockford, Illinois. 

2 8 5 2 
7/26/73 
-8-
In a related memorandum dated July 25, 1973, the Legal Division recom-
mended that the Board adopt a ruling that a "successor" within the 
meaning of section 2(e) of the Bank Holding Company Act acquires the 
privilege of engaging in grandfathered nonbanking activities transferred 
to it by its predecessor to the same extent that the predecessor was 
entitled to engage in such activities. 
If this ruling were adopted, 
Hathdel would be permitted to engage in the nonbanking activities 
of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., that are grandfathered under section 4(a)(2) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision and 
indicating that the applicant would succeed to the grandfather privi-
leges of its predecessor company. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No, 7. a letter was sent to the applicant in the form attached 
as Item No. 8. 
Tennessee National Bancshares. 
In a memorandum dated July 24, 
1973, the Board's staff recommended approval of the application of 
Tennessee National Bancshares, Inc., Maryville, Tennessee, to acquire 
shares of Maryville Savings and Loan Corporation (an industrial loan 
and thrift company), also in Maryville. The Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta had recommended denial of the application on the basis that 
anticompetitive effects would not be outweighed by other public benefits. 
In a memorandum dated July 16, 1973, the Division of Research and 

2 8 5 3 
7/26/73 
-9-
Statistics noted a difference of opinion between the Atlanta Reserve 
Bank and the Board's staff in defining the relevant geographic market. 
During discussion, comments by several Board members indicated 
agreement with the recommendation of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
and particularly with its appraisal of the competitive effects of the 
proposed acquisition. 
The Board then unanimously denied the application. 
It was 
understood that an order reflecting that decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. 
First National City Bank. 
In a memorandum dated July 25, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of First National City Bank, New York, New York, to acquire 
sha res or other evidences of ownership of a holding company to be 
organized and domiciled in Frankfurt, Germany, to be known as Citibank 
Holdings GMBH. 
Because the holding company would be formed for the purpose of 
acquiring interests in German banks, a number of Board members expressed 
the view that this application should be cleared with the Deutsche 
Bundesbank. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion, subject to the concurrence of the Deutsche Bundesbank. 
It was 
understood that the letter to First National City Bank would be held 

2854 
7/26/73 
-io-
and that a report on the Deutsche Bundesbank's views on this application 
would be presented to the Board at the meeting tomorrow. 
Regulation Q. At the meeting on July 24, 1973, it was proposed 
that a percentage limitation be placed on the total amount of time 
deposits of $1,000 or more with a maturity of 4 years or more, on which 
no maximum rate of interest is prescribed, that may be offered by a 
member bank. At that meeting the Board also discussed advertising and 
disclosure statements that should be required with respect to the new 
early withdrawal rules under Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits. 
After consideration of memoranda dated July 25, 1973, from the 
Legal Division and the Division of Research and Statistics, the Board 
unanimously approved an amendment to Regulation Q, effective immediately, 
that would limit $1,000-or-more, 4 years-or-more time deposits to 5 per 
cent of a member bank's total time and savings deposits. The Board also 
approved publication for comment of a proposed amoidment to Regulation Q 
to require disclosure of the early-withdrawa1 penalty provisions in 
advertising time certificates of deposit, and to require that depositors 
be given disclosure statements at the time deposits are made fully 
explaining the effect of the new rules. Attached under Item No. 9 are 
copies of the press release issued and the notices published in the 
Federal Register. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2855 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/26/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20531 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 26, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Savannah Bank & Trust Company 
of Savannah 
Savannah, Georgia 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves under the provisions cf Section 24A of the Federal Reserve 
Act an investment in bank premises by Savannah Bank & Trust Company 
of Savannah, Savannah, Georgia, of net to exceed $3,000,000 for the 
purpose of constructing a new main office building. 
Further, pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation 
Q and section 204.1(f) (3) (i) ot
:
 Regulation D, the Board of Governors 
approves the issuance of a $3,000,000 subordinated capital note by^ 
Savannah Bank & Trust Company of Savannah, Savannah, Georgia, in the 
form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. This approval 
is given on the condition that the capital note cannot be called for 
redemption prior to maturity without the approval of the Federal 
Reserve Bank. Approval is granted with che understanding that the 
sale of the capital note will be consummated within six months from 
the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

285G 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
7/26/73 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of The Southside Bank of St. Petersburg 
First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, a bank holding 
company vithin the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has .applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire all of the voting shares of The Southside Bank of St. Petersburg, 
St. Petersburg, Florida ("Southside Bank"). The name of Applicant vas 
changed to United First Florida Banks, Inc., Tampa, Florida, upon con-
summation on June 29, 1973, of the merger approved by the Board on 
February 16, 1973, under § 3(a)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act betveen 
First Florida Bancorporation and United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., 
1/ 
Miami, Florida. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and vievs, has been given in accordance vith 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 35 banks vith aggregate deposits of $1.2 
billion, representing 6.2 per cent of total deposits of commercial 
banks in Florida and is the fourth largest banking organization in the 
State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect 
l7~ 1973 Bulletin 183. 

2857 
-2-
acquisitions and formations approved by the Board through June 15, 1973.) 
The acquisition of Southside Bank ($4 million deposits) vould increase 
Applicant's share of Florida deposits by less than one-tenth of one per-
centage point, and it vould remain the fourth largest State banking 
organization. 
Southside Bank is located in St. Petersburg in the South 
Pinellas County banking market. In terms of deposits, it ranks as the 
twenty-second largest of 28 market banks and holds approximately 0.22 per 
cent of total deposits for that area. Tvelve bank holding companies are 
represented in the market and hold deposits ranging from 18 per cent to 
3
 per cent of total market deposits. 
Applicant is presently represented in the South Pinellas County 
banking market by tvo subsidiary banks that hold $33 million and $5 mil-
lion, respectively, in area deposits, representing approximately 3 per 
cent of total market deposits. Hovever, Southside Bank receives less 
than 4 per cent of IPC demand and savings deposits and less than 5 per 
cent of its commercial and instalment loans from the service areas of 
these subsidiaries. Applicant's nearest subsidiary bank is located 
a
Pproximately nine miles from Southside Bank. No meaningful competition 
G
xists between these, or any of Applicant's present subsidiary banking 
offices and Southside Bank, and it appears unlikely that significant 
future competition vould develop betveen them in viev of the presence 
intervening banks and State lavs restricting branching. 
Competitive 
c
°nsiderations are consistent ^ith approval of the application. 

'^858 
-3-
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, 
its subsidiaries, and Southside Bank are satisfactory in light of Applicant's 
commitment to increase capital in its subsidiary banks and banking factors 
are consistent t.-ith approval of the application. Although there is no 
evidence in the record to indicate that the banking needs of the area are 
currently not being satisfied by existing financial institutions, Appli-
cant proposes to make trust and international services available to 
Southside Bank's customers on a referral basis. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the community to be served are consistent 
T
ith approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that con-
summation of the proposed transaction t-ould be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the transaction is approved for 
the reasons:summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day folloving the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting; Chairman Burns 
and Governors Daane and Holland. 

2 3 5 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Delray Beach National Bank, Delray Beach, Florida ("Delray Beach Bank"), 
a
nd 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of Fidelity Bank of West 
Delray Beach, Delray Beach, Florida ("Fidelity Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n
d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n
 light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 41 banks with total deposits of $1.3 billion, 
^presenting approximately 7 per cent of the total deposits of commercial 
kanks in the State, and is the second largest banking organization in 
Florida. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect 
folding company acquisitions approved through June 30, 1973, including 
new acquisitions since January 1, 1973.) The acquisitions of 
Item No. 3 
7/26/73 

2860 
-2-
Delray Beach Bank (deposits of $45 million) and Fidelity Bank (deposits 
of $1.0 million as of March 28, 1973) would increase Applicant's share 
of the total State deposits by .21 per cent, and it would remain the 
second largest banking organization in Florida. 
Both Fidelity Bank and Delray Beach Bank are located in the 
West Palm Beach banking market (the relevant market) where they, combined, 
control 3.9 per cent of market deposits. Applicant presently operates 
two banks in the West Palm Beach area; these banks are, respectively, 
17th and 24th largest of the 27 area banks. Applicant's present 
share of deposits in the West Palm Beach area is but 3.3 per cent. Thus, 
consummation of the proposal will not place Applicant in a dominant 
Position in the area nor have any adverse effect on competing area banks. 
Applicant's present banking subsidiaries in the West Palm 
B
cach area are 15 miles north of Delray Beach and attract a negligible 
ain
ount of deposits and loans from the service area of either Delray 
B e
ach Bank or Fidelity Bank. Thus there would be no significant elimi-
U a
tion of competition between Applicant's subsidiaries and the banks to 
b e
 acquired. Nor would consummation of the proposal eliminate present 
°
r
 future competition between Fidelity Bank and Delray Beach Bank since 
b
°th banks are under common management and control. On this basis, the 
B
°ard finds that competitive considerations are consistent with approval 
o f
 the application. 

28G1 
-2-
Applicant has recently injected capital into certain of its 
subsidiary banks and has completed a public stock offering to increase 
its own equity capital. In addition, Applicant has committed Itself 
to improve the capital position at Delray Eeach Bank through an injection 
equity capital and a conversion of capital debt to equity capital. 
I n
 U g h t of these actions, the Board finds the financial condition and 
Managerial resources of Applicant, its subsidiaries and the banks to 
kfc acquired as satisfactory; and prospects for each are favorable. 
There Is no evidence that the 27 banks in the market are 
filing to meet the banking needs of the community, and Applicant does 
n
°t intend any immediate change In services offered by the proposed sub-
sidiaries. These new subsidiaries, however, will be able to draw on the 
e
xpertise and resources of the holding company in areas of investments 
lending, and this should improve their competitive position. Accord-
ingly, considerations relating to convenience and needs of the communities 
t o
 be served are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment 
^ a t consummation of the proposed acquisitions would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application Is approved for 
^ e reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
^
a
te of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 

-4-
2862 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause 
by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,1/ effective July 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
D
aane and Holland. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
^ s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Commerce Bank of Independence, National Association, Independence, 
Missouri ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e
*sons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^
 3
(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a t l d
 the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i t l
 light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the third largest banking organization in Missouri 
a t l d
 largest of 110 such organizations in the Kansas City banking market 
Approximated by the old Kansas City SMSA, less that portion of Cass County 
8
°
u
th of Harrisonville), controls 25 banks with aggregate deposits of 
^»024 million, which represent 8.15 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
b a
*ks in Missouri and 15.75 per cent of all such deposits in the Kansas City 
inking market.1/ 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
immediately increase Applicant's shares of commercial bank deposits either 
i t l
 Missouri or in the Kansas City market. Applicant's nearest present 
P i n k i n g data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding 
°
m
Pany acquisitions and formations approved through June 29, 1973. 
2 8 6 3 
Item No. 4 
7/26/73 

2864 
-2-
subsidiary, Commerce Bank of Blue Hills, is located thirteen miles away, 
outside of Bank's proposed service area. Within that service area, 
Bank will face competition from twelve other banks, including one sub-
sidiary of the seventh largest banking organization in the Kansas City 
market. Accordingly, the Board concludes that consummation of the pro-
Posed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any relevant 
area. 
During the course of its consideration of this application, 
fc
he Board has received adverse comments from an Independence, Missouri, 
b a
n k which contends that affiliation of Applicant with Bank would offend 
Missouri's statute prohibiting branch banking. The facts of record 
indicate that Bank will be a separate corporation, with its own capital 
8 t
ock and a loan limit based on such capital stock; that Bank will be 
m
anaged by its own officers; that Bank's board of directors will be 
generally independent from that of Applicant's lead bank (Commerce Bank 
o f
 Kansas City); that no employees of Applicants lead bank will perform 
S e
rvices for customers of Bank or perform management or supervisory functions 
V i t
h respect to Bank; and that Applicant will acquire Bank by purchase with 
Cft
sh from Applicant's own cash assets. The Board has repeatedly stated 
, l Q
t a State' s restrictive branch banking laws are not automatically 
applicable to bank holding company operations, and the Board, in this 
C a Q
e , has found, based upon the above and other facts of record, that 
will not be operated in such a manner that it and any banking sub-
i<Uary of Applicant could be characterized as being engaged in unitary 

* - 2865 
-2-
operations. The Board concludes, therefore, that Bank will not con-
stitute a branch office of any banking subsidiary of Applicant. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its present 
subsidiary banks, and Bank are satisfactory and prospects are considered 
favorable. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed acquisition is in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) Commerce 
Bank of Independence, National Association, shall be opened for business 
n
°t later than six months after the effective date of this Order. Each 
o f
 the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to 
^legated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,2J effective July 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
I ^ ^ i n g f o r t h i s action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
heehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
a a r
*e and Holland. 

, 
28GB 
r — 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
7/26/73 
FIRST PENNSYLVANIA CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Continental 
Finance Corporation of America 
First Pennsylvania Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h
as applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 
U
-S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 
C F
R 225.4(b)(2)), to acquire all of the voting shares of Continental 
finance Corporation of America, Aurora, Colorado ("CFCA"). CFCA through 
V a
rious of its subsidiaries engages in the activities of (1) operating 
industrial banks, in the manner authorized by Colorado law, that receive 
time and savings deposits and make loans to individuals and (2) making con-
S u m e r
 finance loans and purchasing installment sales finance contracts. 
*
t s
 subsidiaries also engage in the sale of credit life and credit accident 
aric
* health insurance, physical damage insurance, and casualty insurance in 
c
°nnection with their extensions of credit. Such activities have been 
d e
termined by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), 
(2
>» and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
p e r
sons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
duly published (38 Federal Register 6318). The time for filing comments 
views has expired, and none have been received. The Board has considered 
th 
e
 application in the light of the public interest factors set forth in 
I A
(<0(8) of the Act. 

-2-
2867 
Applicant controls the second largest bank in Pennsylvania with 
total deposits of $2.6 billion, representing 7.9 per cent of the total 
commercial bank deposits in that State (as of June 30, 1972). Applicant's 
nonbanking subsidiaries engage in mortgage banking, investment and manage-
ment services for a real estate investment trust and others, personal 
property and equipment leasing, data processing services, holding real 
estate, and consumer finance activities. 
CFCA and its subsidiaries have total assets of $13.5 million 
(as of August 31, 1972). With regard to its finance company activities, 
CFCA presently operates through wholly-owned subsidiaries, 10 offices 
located in Denver, Colorado, and Los Angeles County, California. The 
industrial bank subsidiaries of CFCA are operated on the premises of, and 
in conjunction with, those consumer finance offices located in Denver, 
^ e proposed acquisition would have no adverse effect on existing competition 
since Applicant's subsidiaries neither serve nor maintain offices in any 
geographic market served by subsidiaries of CFCA. Applicant would not appear 
to be a likely de novo entrant into CFCA's market areas; and, in any event, 
C
FCA has only a very small share of the business in the Denver market 
a
*ea and the Los Angeles metropolitan market area. The Eoard concludes 
that the proposed acquisition would have no adverse effects upon future 
competition. Further, there is no evidence in the record to suggest that 
the acquisition of CFCA by Applicant would have adverse effects on credit 
m
*de available to independent finance companies by Applicant's subsidiary 
hank. 

2868 
-2-
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation 
the proposal would result in any undue concentration of resources, 
unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices. 
Approval of the application, by permitting CFCA to gain access to Appli-
cant's financial resources, should enhance CFCA's competitive effectiveness 
and enable it to expand the range of services it offers. On the basis of 
the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the record, the Board 
has determined that the balance of the public interest factors the Board 
is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
The proposed transaction is expected to be consummated by means 
an exchange by Applicant of its shares for all of the shares of CFCA. 
the past fex* years, Applicant has engaged in a vigorous expansion pro-
- a m through the acquisition of many consumer finance companies throughout 
the United States. These acquisitions have been effected either by Appli-
Cai
*t directly or by one of Applicant's consumer finance subsidiaries. Two 
A p p i i c a n t ' s consumer finance subsidiaries, Investors Loan Corporation 
("investors") and Industrial Finance and Thrift Corporation ("Industrial 
finance"), were acquired by Applicant in 1970; and, under the provisions 
0 f
 § 4(a)(2) of the Act, Applicant may not retain ownership of these com-
piles beyond December 31, 1980, without Board approval. Applicant has 
n
°t yet filed applications to retain shares of these companies, nor has the 
°
ar
d, in its consideration of the instant proposal, passed on the desirability 
of 
Permitting retention beyond 1980. Under these circumstances, the Board 
^ U e v e s that it would be in the public interest to approve the acquisition 

-2-
28G9 
of CFCA on the condition that Applicant maintain the assets of CFCA separate 
and apart from those of either Investors or Industrial Finance, and, upon 
consummation of these acquisitions, operate CFCA as a separate business 
entity. This condition may be lifted at such time as the Board has an 
opportunity to make a determination on any application subsequently filed 
to retain the shares of Investors or Industrial Finance. 
Accordingly, this application is hereby approved on the condition 
^ a t Applicant maintain the assets of CFCA and its subsidiaries separate 
apart from those of Investors and Industrial Finance and operate the 
company sought to be acquired as a separate business entity. The transaction 
s
hall not be consummated later than three months after the effective date of 
t
^is Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
^his determination is further subject to the conditions set forth in 
® 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and the Board's authority to require such modifi-
c
ation or termination of the activities of the holding company or any of 
c s
 subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to ensure compliance with 
^ e conditions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
°
r
ders issued thereunder or to prevent evasion thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective 
26 
1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
[SEAL] 
Secretary of the Board 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell,and Governors Brimmer, 
^oehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
" * 
Pernors Daane and Holland. 

A II IWI 
. j
f
j
p
j
i
^
j
, 
l
i
i
p
^
g
0
,
.
] 
^a^ •irtaA,,Wfirf-Tii".^ai^ti-w •i 
I^aiu^i 
Item No. 6 
7/26/73 
p
°r Immediate release 
July 31, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today published 
f o r
 comment and scheduled a hearing for September 12 on a revised proposal to 
Permit bank holding companies to engage in both real and personal property 
leasing under a consolidated set of rules. 
Today's revision followed Board consideration of comments received 
°
n
 an earlier proposal that was announced last December 6. 
The Board scheduled the hearing in view of the complexities of the 
*
s
sues involved and the Board's desire to gather further information prior 
t o
 final action. The hearing is to be held at the Board's offices before 
a v a
H a b l e Board members. 
The proposal would supersede the existing regulatory provision 
authorizing bank holding companies to engage in personal property leasing, and 
v
°
u
ld provide a common set of rules for bank holding companies engaging in 
^
G r
sonal or real property leasing or both. 
The proposal retains the central condition the Board has imposed 
u
Pon leasing by bank holding companies -- that the leasing transaction serve 
a s
 
functional equivalent of an extension of credit whereby the lessor 
Y>_ 
covers its full investment in the leased property during the initial term 
°
f
 ^ e lease. 
Principal changes in the leasing rules, as now proposed, are: 
1. The term "residual value" would be substituted for "salvage 
U e
 ' and, in computing full payout recovery, maximum allowable residual value 
be limited to 10 per cent of the acquisition cost of the property. 

ZS71. 
- 2 -
2 . In computing full payout recovery reasonably anticipated renewal 
*
e
ases can be relied upon with respect to governmental entities only and 
U o t
 Private lessees. 
3. The proposal would permit a bank holding company to own property 
t o
 
leased for up to 50 years, but x^ould require full payout recovery within 
4 0
 years. 
4 . The prior proposal would have required bank holding companies 
to S e
U the property within two years after expiration of the initial full 
lease term. The revised proposal would permit bank holding companies 
the 
P
*you t 
a
lternative of re-leasing the property. 
Other provisions of the previous proposal, including requirements 
c
he property to be leased was acquired specifically for the leasing 
section and that the lease is on a non-operating basis, are unchanged. 
Written comment on the revised proposal will be received by the 
t G
tary 0 f t h e Board through October 3, 1973. Persons Interested In 
i C
ipating in the hearing should inform the Secretary of the Board In 
M t i n
8 not later than August 24, 1973. Each person admitted as a party to 
Proceeding will be given up to 30 minutes to present his views. 
A copy of the Board's revised proposal and hearing order is attached. 
- 0 -

2872 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 225] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanking Activities 
The Board of Governors has considered the comments received on 
l t
s proposal (37 F.R, 26534) to permit bank holding companies, under the 
a u
thority of section 4(c)(0) of the Bank Holding Company Act, to engage 
real and personal property leasing under substantially the same con-
ations and has made certain modifications of such proposal, which are 
8 e t
 forth hereinafter. Due to the number and complexity of the issues 
Evolved in the proposal, the Board believes it in the public interest 
t o
 Bather more information about the proposal at a hearing. 
Accordingly, 
t l l e
 Board has directed that a hearing be held before available members of 
t h e
 Board in Room 1202 of its building at 20th Street and Constitution 
Av
<UUie, N.W., Washington, D. C., on September 12, 1973, at 10:00 a.m. 
The proposed amendment, as modified, reads as follows: 
H 2
25.4 
Nonbanking Activities 
(а) Activities closely related to banking or managing or 
S t r o l l i n g banks. * * * The following activities have been determined 
b y
 the Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or control-
l l n
8 banks as to be a proper incident thereto: 
(б) Leasing real and personal property or acting as agent, 
or adviser in leasing such property provided: 

-2-
r " 2873 
(i) 
the lease is to serve as the functional equivalent of an 
extension of credit to the lessee of the property; 
(ii) 
the property to be leased is acquired specifically for the 
leasing transaction under consideration or was acquired specifically 
for an earlier leasing transaction; 
(iii) 
the lease is on a nonoperating basis; 
(iv) 
at the inception of the initial lease the effect of the 
transaction (and, with respect to governmental entities only, reason-
ably anticipated future transactions*) will yield a return from (1) 
rentals, (2) estimated tax benefits (investment tax credit, net 
economic gain from tax deferral from accelerated depreciation, and 
other tax benefits with a substantially similar effect), and (3) the 
estimated residual value of the property at the expiration of the 
initial term of the lease, which in no case shall exceed 10 per cent 
of the acquisition cost of the property to the lessor, that will com-
pensate the lessor for not less than the lessor's full investment in 
the property plus the estimated total cost of financing the property 
over the term of the lease;** 
* 
The Board understands that some Federal, State and local governmental 
^ U t i e s may not enter into a lease for a period in excess of one year 
Such 
a t
Vimpediment does not prohibit a company authorized under § 225.4(a) from 
B e r i n g into a lease with such governmental entities if the company reason-
a b
l y anticipates that such governmental entities will renew the lease annually 
U l
^ i l s u c h time as the company is fully compensated for its investment in the 
leased property plus its costs of financing the property. Further, a company 
a u
thorized under § 225.4(a) may also engage in a so-called "bridge" lease 
financing of personal property, but not real property, where the lease is shcit 
to
-rm pending completion of long term financing, by the same or another lender. 
** The estimate by the lessor of the total cost of financing the property 
the term of the lease should reflect, among other factors, the term of 
lease, the modes of financing available to the lessor, the credit rating 
the lessor and/or the lessee, if a factor in the financing, and prevail-
rates in the money and capital markets. 

. 287* 
-3-
<v) the maximum lease term during which the lessor must 
recover the lessor's full investment in the property plus the 
estimated cost of financing the property shall be AO years; 
(vi) 
at the expiration of the lease (including any renewals 
or extensions with the same lessee), all interest in the property 
shall be either liquidated or re-leased on a nonoperating basis as 
soon as practicable but in no event later than two years from the 
expiration of the l e a s e h o w e v e r , in no case shall the lessor 
retain any interest in the property beyond 50 years after its 
acquisition of the property. 
In connection with the hearing, the Board notes that BankAmerica 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, has requested an opportunity for 
a
 hearing with regard to the effect the proposal would have upon the Board's 
listing personal property leasing regulation (225,4(a)(6) of Regulation Y). 
°ther interested persons are invited to participate by presenting their 
v i
ews on issues raised by the pending proposal. Interested persons need 
n
°t participate in the hearing through oral presentation in order to have 
tbl
eir views considered. All views previously expressed in writing on the 
Pending proposal are under consideration by the Board and are available 
inspection and copying in Room 1020 of the Board's building. 
In the event of a default on a lease agreement prior to the expiration 
1
 the lease term, the lessor shall either re-lease such property, subject 
all the conditions of this subseccion 6, or liquidate such property as 
as practicable but in no event later than tx,?o years from the date of 
e
^ault on a lease agreement. 

Persons interested in participating in the hearing by pre-
senting material orally should inform the Secretary of the Board in 
S i t i n g not later than August 24, 1973. Each person admitted as a party 
t o
 the proceeding will be given up to 30 minutes to present his views. 
Anyone wishing to submit written comments on issues raised 
a t
 the hearing may do so at any time before the close of business 
October 3, 1973. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 

2876 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
 
I t e m 
N o
-
 
7 
7/26/73 
HATHDEL INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Hathdel Inc., New Bedford, Massachusetts, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 97.7 per cent of the voting shares of The Illinois 
National Bank & Trust Co. of Rockford, Rockford, Illinois ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
® 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
i d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
l n
 light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
I 8
42( C)). 
Applicant, a nonoperating Delaware corporation, was organized 
a s
 a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ("Berkshire"), New Bedford, 
M 
a s
sachusetts (a Massachusetts corporation), a bank holding company 
w
hich presently owns 97.7 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of 
The proposal involves Applicant's acquisition of all the assets 
including shares of Bank) of and assumption of the liabilities of 
B 
e r
Kshire through the merger of the latter into the former under the 
charter of the former. The proposed transaction is merely a corporate 
Organization 
whereby an existing one-bank holding company will change 
itq state of incorporation from Massachusetts to Delaware; the location, 

2877 
-2-
nature and scope of Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities will 
b
e identical to that of the predecessor corporation. 
Bank ($136.1 million in deposits) operates its only office 
Rockford. It controls approximately 22 per cent of the deposits in 
commercial banks in Winnebago County (which approximates the relevant 
m
arket) and approximately 0.3 per cent of the total deposits held by 
a
H commercial banks in Illinois, making it the largest bank in the 
If 
county and 28th largest in the State." 
Since the proposal to acquire 
ank involves a corporate reorganization representing no expansion of the 
folding company system, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
P r
oposal will not have any adverse competitive effects. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f
 Bank and of Applicant are regarded as satisfactory and are consistent 
V i
t h approval of the application. Consummation of the transaction would 
^
a v e n o
 immediate effect on the convenience and needs of the community 
to i 
e
 served; considerations relating to convenience and needs are con-
sistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment 
t
^at consummation of the proposed acquisition would be consistent with 
th 
e
 Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
The merger of Berkshire into Applicant involves the acquisition 
b y t l l e
 latter of the nonbanking activities of the former, some of which 
grandfathered under section 4(a)(2) of the Act. The Board regards 
1 7 
A
H banking data are as of December 31, 1972. 

2878 
-2-
Applicant as a "successor" to Berkshire within the meaning of § 2(e) of 
the Act and believes that Hathdel may engage in the nonbanking activities 
so transferred to the same extent as Berkshire is entitled to engage in 
these activities at the present time. Berkshire has filed an irrevocable 
declaration, pursuant to § 4(c)(12) of the Act and section 225.4(d) of 
Regulation Y , that it will cease to be a bank holding company by December 31, 
1980. As a successor, Applicant is subject to this commitment of its 
Predecessor, and the application is approved on the condition that Appli-
cant, at the time of consummation of the proposal, file an irrevocable 
declaration to the same effect as that filed by Berkshire. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,~~ effective July 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
I T Voting for this action; 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governors Daane and Holland. 

2879 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 8 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/26/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
U D A W O 
July 26, 1973 
REGISTERED - AIR M I L 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Hathdel Inc. 
c/o Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 
P . O . Box C-904 
New Bedford, Massachusetts 
02741 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has approved the following application filed pursuant to the 
Bank Holding Company Act: 
Hathdel Inc., for permission to become a bank 
holding company through acquisition of 97.7 per cent 
of the voting shares of The Illinois National Bank & 
Trust Co. of Rockford, Rockford, Illinois. 
Your attention is directed to the condition in the 
Order relating to the filing, by Hathdel Inc., of an irrevocable 
declaration to the same effect as that filed by Berkshire 
Hathaway Inc. 
Enclosed is material related to the Board's action. 
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the action herein approved is 
to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be 
given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
Very truly yours, 
l/iCfjj^ 
b , 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^ c l o s u r e s : 
1» 
Press Release 
2. 
Order 

W * 
> fecft * \ 
^ i i l i j i . ^ 
t;: -<i/ r 
I r ; r; 
:j£>, tl 
j»- Jt> 
:> ir. -IN;-
'S 
Item No. 9 
7/26/73 
p
°r immediate release 
July 26, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today imposed 
limits on the amount of "no-ceiling' consumer-type certificates of deposit 
t
^
a f c r a a
y he issued by member banks. 
On July 5, the Board increased the maximum rates of interest that 
e
®ber banks may pay on savings and other consumer-type deposits, and es-
a new category of time deposit on which merober banks may pay any 
of interest they desire so long as the deposit matures in four years 
and has a minimum denomination of $1,000. 
In order to provide for the introduction of these new savings in-
struments at a more orderly pace, the Board today limited the amount cf such 
ett
lfic.ates that a bank may issue to 5 per cent of its total time and savings 
^ f i l t s . Any such certificate that a bank sells beyond that amount will 
subject to the existing interest rate ceiling of 6.5 per cent that applies 
0
 time deposits maturing in 2-1/2 years or more. 
Savings and loan associations tlint are members of the Federal Home 
Bank System are also subject to a limitation of 5 per cent of total 
s p i r a l on issuance of the new typo certificates. 
At the same time, the Board invited comment by August 27 on a 
Poaal that vcwld require memhar banks to: 
1. Ptovi.de a clear and conspicuous notice i n bank advertising 
that v. 
federal law and regulation prohibit the bank from redeeming a time 
before maturity unless some. interest is forfeited. 

2881 
- 2 -
2. 
Give to each bank customer who is making a time deposit a 
disclosure statement specifying that the customer has contracted to keep 
funds on deposit for a fixed period of time and describing how the early 
Withdrawal penalty applies to time deposits. 
This statement would contain 
arithmetical examples illustrating how the penalty provisions would work. 
A copy of the Board's orders relating to these actions is 
attached. 
- 0 -

2882 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A — B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Maximum rates of interest 
The Board of Governors has amended its Regulation Q so as to 
impose certain interest rate limitations on the receipt by a member 
bank of time deposits of $1,000 or more with maturities of 4 years or 
more. There will be no interest rate ceiling on such deposits so long 
as the total amount of such deposits in the member bank does not exceed 
5 per cent of the bank's total time and savings deposits. With respect 
to any such deposit that is received during the period when the out-
standing amount of such deposits is at or above the 5 per cent level, 
the member bank shall not pay interest on such deposit at a rate in 
excess of 6 1/2 per cent. This action was taken pursuant to the Board's 
authority under section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to prescribe rules 
governing the payment of interest on deposits. 
There was no notice, public participation, and deferred effec-
tive date with respect to this amendment because such procedure would 
result in delay that would be contrary to the public interest and serve 
no useful purpose. See § 262.2(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure, 
12 CFR § 262.2(e). 

-2-
2883 
Effective immediately, section 217.7(a) of the Board's Regu-
lation Q (12 CFR Part 217) is amended to read as follows: 
§ 217.7 
Maximum rates of interest payable by member banks on time and 
savings deposits. 
ft ft ft ft 
M 
Time deposits with no maximum rate of interest prescribed. 
(1) There is no maximum rate of interest presently prescribed 
on any time deposit of $100,000 or more. 
(2) There is no maximum rate of interest presently prescribed 
on any time deposit of $1,000 or more (but less than $100,000) with a 
maturity of 4 years or more, so long as the total amount of such deposits 
does not exceed 5 per cent of the member bank's"total tine and savings 
d
epoGit3 that are subject to thi3 section. With respect to any such deposit 
that is received during the.period when the outstanding amount'of such 
deposits is at or above the 5 per cent level, the member bank shall not'pay 
interest on such deposit at a rate in excess of 6 1/2 per cent. 
ft ft ft ft 
By order of Board of Governors, 
(Signed) Chester B . feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
 
4
 • 
[12 CFR Tart 217] 
INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Protection of Depositors 
The Board of Governors proposes to amend its Regulation Q to 
provide that (1) any advertisement, announcement, or solicitation re-
lating to interest paid on time deposits by member banks include clear 
and conspicuous notice that Federal law and regulation prohibit the bank 
from paying a time deposit before maturity unless certain interest is 
forfeited, and (2) the bank customer shall be given, at the time that 
a time deposit is made, a disclosure statement which makes it clear that 
the customer has contracted to leave his funds on deposit for the stated 
Maturity and which describes how the early withdrawal penalty applies to 
time deposits in the bank, in the event the bank, notwithstanding the 
contract provisions, permits payment before maturity. This amendment 
to Regulation Q would be made pursuant to the Board's authority under 
section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to prescribe rules governing the 
Payment and advertisement of interest on deposits in member banks. 
To aid in the consideration of the matter by the Board, in-
terested persons are invited to submit relevant views, arguments, or data. 
such submission should be addressed in writing to the Secretary, 
£
oard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D . C . 
2 q
551, to be received no later than August 27, 1973. Such material will 
b e
 made available for inspection and copying upon request, except as 
Provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of 
Information. 

£885 
-2-
To implement its proposal, the Board proposes to amend its 
Regulation Q (12 CFR Part 217) in the following respects: 
1. § 217.4 would be amended by redesignating paragraph (e) 
as paragraph (f) and by adding a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: 
§ 217.4 
Payment of time deposits before maturity. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(e) BlSillogl*!^ jg|_ cgX* Y Withdrawal penalty,. At the time a 
customer makes a time deposit in a member bank, the bank shall provide 
a written statement of the effect of the penalty prescribed in paragraph 
(d) of this section, which shall (1) state clearly that the customer has 
Contracted to keep his funds on deposit for the stated maturity, and 
(2) describe fully and clearly how such penalty provisions apply to time 
deposits in such bank, in the event the bank, notwithstanding the con-
tract provisions, permits payment before maturity. Such statements shall 
be expressly called to the attention of the customer and shall contain 
arithmetic examples illustrating how the penalty provisions apply to 
specific, time deposit contracts. 
2. § 217.6 would be amended by redesignating paragraphs (e), 
(£), and (g) as (f), (g), and (h) and by adding a new paragraph (e) to 
*ead as follows: 
§ 217.6 Advertising of interest on deposits, 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(e) Penalty for early withdrawals. Any advertisement, 
announcement, or solicitation relating to interest paid by a member 
tank on time deposits shall include clear and conspicuous notice that 

r> 
-3-
Federal law and regulation prohibit the bank from paying a time deposit 
before maturity unless substantial interest is forfeited. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
July 26, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
