MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 12, 1973 

4819 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, December 12, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, New York, 
to organize an Edge corporation to be named Chase Manhattan International 
Banking Corporation (Houston), Houston, Texas. A copy of the letter 
sent to the applicant, with which was transmitted a preliminary permit, 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved, Governor Sheehan abstaining, the application 
of First Chicago International Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 

4820 
12/12/73 
-2-
indirectly to acquire shares of First National Bank of Chicago (C.I.), 
Limited, to be formed in Guernsey, Channel Islands. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Continental 
International Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, directly or 
indirectly to acquire shares of Continental Illinois Assessoria Financeira 
e Servicos Ltda. (a bank premises holding company), Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Continental 
Illinois Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to make an additional investment 
in Builders Financial Company Limited, Toronto, Canada. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Bancorp 
of N.H., Inc., Exeter, New Hampshire, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to The Merchants National Bank of Manchester, Manchester, 
New Hampshire, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Austin Bancshares 
Corporation, Austin, Texas, to acquire shares of Oak Hill National Bank, 
Oak Hill, Texas, a proposed new bank, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Itern No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southeast 
Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Bank of Wildwood, 

12/12/73 
-3-
Wildwood, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this 
decision. A copy is attached as Item No, 7. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Bankers blanket bond insurance. The Chase Manhattan Corporation, 
New York, New York, had applied to acquire shares of Chase Manhattan 
Captive Insurance Company, Denver, Colorado, and thus to engage de novo 
in the underwriting of the deductible portion of bankers blanket bond 
insurance for itself and its bank subsidiaries. In a memorandum dated 
September 14, 1973, the Legal Division recommended that the Board publish 
a notice of receipt of the application and invite comments on the questions 
whether the proposed activity was closely related to banking and whether 
it would result in benefits to the public outweighing possible adverse 
effects. The Division suggested using this route rather than rule-making 
procedures because it was expected that relatively few institutions would 
be likely to apply for permission to engage in the activity. A draft 
notice was attached. 
In a memorandum dated November 29, 1973, the Division of Research 
and Statistics explored the question whether the proposed activity was 
closely related to banking and whether performance of the activity by bank 
holding companies would be likely to result in net public benefits. In a 
memorandum of November 30, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
referred to its recommendation of denial (in a memorandum of November 26) 
of the application of Chase Manhattan Corporation to acquire shares of a 
captive insurance company to be formed in Hamilton, Bermuda, to conduct 

12/12/73 
-4-
similar insurance activities on behalf of Chase Manhattan's foreign 
subsidiaries. The Division suggested that, if the Board decided to 
invite comments on the issues relating to the Chase Manhattan proposal 
to acquire the Denver insurance company, the proposal relating to the 
Bermuda company be held in abeyance, since any arguments regarding public 
interest considerations would appear to apply with equal validity whether 
the insurance company was located in the U.S. or abroad. 
Discussion at today's meeting included citation by Governor Brimmer 
of reasons in support of his view that the proposal should be denied 
rather than published for comment. He found persuasive the arguments of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation with respect to the possible 
abuses involved in the proposed acquisition of the Bermuda insurance 
company. If the Denver proposal was to be published for comment, it 
should be done in a neutral way so as not to give any impression of 
likelihood that the activity might be added to those determined by the 
Board to be closely related to banking under section 4(c) (8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act. In any event, he preferred rule-making procedures 
rather than addressing attention only to this particular application. 
Other comments indicated agreement that a neutral stance should 
be preserved, and it was understood that the draft order would be revised 
in that direction. There was also agreement that an inquiry should be 
addressed to the Internal Revenue Service regarding tax implications of 
the proposal. 

12/12/73 
-5-
At the conclusion of the discussion, Governor Brimmer's views 
having been noted, the Board authorized issuance of an order and related 
press release in the form attached under Item No. 8. Pursuant to this 
action, a letter was sent to the Internal Revenue Service in the form 
attached as Item No. 9. The Board further agreed to defer action on the 
application of Chase Manhattan Corporation to acquire a captive insurance 
company in Bermuda pending receipt of comments on the domestic application. 
Old Kent Financial Corporation. In a memorandum dated November 28, 
1973, the Division of Research and Statistics recommended approval of the 
application of Old Kent Financial Corporation, Grand Rapids, Michigan, to 
acquire shares of the successor by merger to National Lumberman's Bank 
and Trust Company, Muskegon, Michigan. The Division of Supervision and 
Regulation recommended denial, as had the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Discussion at today's meeting having indicated divided views, 
action was deferred until a time when additional members of the Board could 
participate. 
Florida National Banks. In a memorandum dated September 26, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Division of Research 
and Statistics recommended approval of the application of Florida National 
Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of North-
side Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida. A draft order prepared by the Legal 
Division to implement an approval decision included a condition that the 
transaction not be consummated until approval by the Board of a plan of 
divestiture by duPont Trust of its holdings of shares of Florida National 

4824 
12/12/73 
-6-
Banks of Florida. (The Board had determined that duPont Trust was 
engaged in nonpermissible activities under the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Under the Board's order of October 15, 1973, the duPont Trustees were 
required to submit by December 14, 1973, a plan of divestiture to assure 
termination of the control and/or the controlling influence found to exist.) 
The Board unanimously approved the application, with the condition 
attached, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A 
copy is attached as Item No. 10. (In the form in which it was issued, 
the order incorporated changes agreed upon during discussion.) A letter 
was sent to the applicant in the form attached as Item No. 11. 
All staff members then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, Allison, 
and Coyne, and Mrs. Semia, and the following entered: 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Layton, Director of Equal Employment 
Mr. Morgan, Assistant to the Secretary 
Director appointments. It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond whether Mr. I. E. Killian, Manager, Eastern 
Region, Exxon Company, U.S.A., Baltimore, Maryland, would accept appointment 
if tendered as a director of the Baltimore Branch of the Richmond Reserve 
Bank for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1974, with the understanding 
that if it was found that he would accept, the appointment would be made. 
(It having been learned that he would accept, the appointment was made 
effective February 1, 19 74.) 

4825 
12/12/73 
-7-
Mr. William A. Cordingley, Publisher, Great Falls Tribune, 
Great Falls, Montana, was reappointed a director of the Helena Branch 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis for the two-year term beginning 
January 1, 1974. 
It w a s agreed to ascertain through the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis whether Mr. David G. Drum, President, Y-V Fertilizer Corporation, 
Billings, Montana, would accept appointment if tendered as a director of 
the Helena Branch of the Minneapolis Reserve Bank for the unexpired portion 
of the two-year term expiring December 31, 1974, with the understanding 
that if it was found that he would accept, the appointment would be made. 
(It having been learned that he would accept, an appointment telegram 
was subsequently sent to Mr. Drum.) 
National Bankers Association. Governor Bucher spoke of an inquiry 
he had had regarding the possibility of financial contributions by the 
Federal bank supervisory authorities to support a seminar expected to be 
held in 1974 by the National Bankers Association for the benefit of directors 
of its member institutions. 
Discussion brought out that the Association consisted of a group 
of minority-owned banks and that its organizing efforts had been subsidized 
to some extent by the Office of Minority Business Enterprise in the Depart-
ment of Commerce. Comments on the history of the organization reflected a 
general view that it was a trade association and should not look to the 
Federal Government for financial support, except perhaps through the contin-
uing efforts of the Department of Commerce. It was agreed that response 

mzG 
12/12/73 
-8-
would be made to the telephone inquiry that had been received that the 
Board regretted that it could not provide financial assistance to the 
Association, but that it would be willing to provide speakers for the 
seminar. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

* 
1 
s • xQ. . 
• • 1 - t I tU 
iW^k: 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
205LJ1 
Item No. 1 
12/12/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
December 12, 1973 
Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 10005 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated August 21, 1973, 
of Chase Manhattan International Banking Corporation (Houston) and 
there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation 
to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its or-
ganization. 
Except as provided in Section 2.11.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final, permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the presi-
dent, treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of f.he 
directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the 
United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock 
is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations 
the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States, chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State 
of the United States, or by firms or companies the controlling in-
terest in which is owned by citizens of the United States; and 
(3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in the Articles 
of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and 
that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 25 per 
cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer or secre-
tary shall certify to the payment of the remaining instalments as 
and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 

48*18 
- 
2 
-
Your attention is directed to the fact that Chase Manhattan 
International Banking Corporation (Houston) will have no separate base 
under the foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or 
investments will need to be made under the ceiling of Chase Manhattan 
Bank, N.A. 
Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the under-
standing that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation will 
be made within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending 
and investment activities of your bank'and its subsidiaries and that 
due consideration will be given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

1829 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/12/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 12, 19 7 3 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
One First National Plaza 
Clri cago, Illinois 60670 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 17, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FCIFC") to continue 
to hold the shares of First Chicago (Delaware), Inc., ("FCD") Chicago, 
Illinois, after FCD acquires all the shares of The First National Bank 
of Chicago (C.T.), Limited, ("FCG") Guernsey, Channel Islands, at a 
cost of approximately LI,000,000 (about $2,500,000), provided 20 per 
cent of the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. In this connection, approval is also granted for the purchase 
and holding of shares of FCG by your Corporation in cxcess of the 
applicable limitations set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) 
(12 U.S.C. 615(c)) of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of 
Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of FCG by FCIFC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FCIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FCG if FCG at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if FCG establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Guernsey or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FCIFC; 

4830 
First Chicago International 
- 2 -
Finance Corporation 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
FCIFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of FCG as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
FCG be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation 
K in the same manner as if FCG were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate 
to restrictions on loans granted by FCG in Guernsey in the currency of 
that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of FCG. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to The First National Bank of Chicago and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4631. 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/12/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
D F F I C S A L 
C O H R E S P U N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 12, 197 3 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation 
231 South La Salle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60693 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 26, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CIFC") to purchase 
and hold, directly or indirectly, all the shares of Continental Illinois 
Assessoria Financeira e Servicos Ltda. ("CIAFS"), Sao Paulo, at a cost 
of approximately Cr.1,840,000 (about $300,000), provided the shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of CIAFS by CIFC is granted on the condition that CIAFS confine 
its activities to the holding of the premises to be utilized by Continental 
II] ino.is National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago fur its Brazilian 
representative office. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
Investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of 
Chicago and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4832 
B O A R D • F B D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 4 
• F 
T H E 
12/12/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 12, 1973 
Continental Illinois 
Corporation 
231 South La Salle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60693 
Centlemon: 
As requested in your letter of October 23, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Section 4(c) 
(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended and Section 
225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation (UCJ.C") to purchase and 
hold, directly or indirectly, additional shares of Builders Financial 
Co. Limited ("BFL"), Toronto, Canada, so as to maintain its percentage 
ownership, at a cost of approximately $2,000,000, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of BFL by CIC is granted subject to the same conditions set forth 
in the Board's letter of September 2, 1971, as amended October 5, 1.971. 
Very truly your s 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4833 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST BANCORP OF N.H., INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Bancorp of N.H., Inc., Exeter, New Hampshire, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(3) of the Act 
( 1 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of the successor by merger to The Merchants National Bank of 
Manchester, Manchester, New Hampshire ("Bank"). Since the bank into 
which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means 
t o facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank, the pro-
Posed acquisition of the shares of the successor organization is 
Seated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with section 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and none has been received. The Board has 
c°nsidered the application in light of the factors set forth in 
Action 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant presently has one subsidiary bank,~^ The Exeter 
banking Company, Exeter, New Hampshire ("Exeter Bank"), and is 
j7 
In addition, the Board, on December 3, 1973, approved Applicant's 
Proposed acquisition of Laconia Peoples National Bonk and Trust 
ompany, Laconia, New Hampshire ("Laconia Bank"), with deposits of 
*21.8 million. 
Item No. 5 
12/12/73 

. 4834 
-2-
the State's ninth largest banking organization, with deposits of 
$31.8 million^ representing 2.4 per cent of total commercial bank 
deposits in the State. Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $37.5 
million) would increase Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits 
in New Hampshire by 2.8 percentage points to 5.2 per cent.-' 
Bank ranks eighth in size among the State's commercial 
banks, and is the fourth largest of 12 commercial banks with offices 
the Manchester Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA), which 
approximates the relevant market. Bank operates three offices in 
Manchester (population 87,754), the State's largest city, located 
j 
n south central New Hampshire, and one office in a contiguous town. 
Exeter Bank operates in Rockingham County, in the south-
astern sector of New Hampshire, and serves a market essentially 
separate from the Manchester area served by Bank. A distance of 
aPProximately 18 miles separates the closest banking offices of 
Exeter Bank and Bank and neither is able to penetrate effectively 
other's market area. Consequently, there is no significant 
competition existing between Applicant and Bank. Further, it appears 
unlikely that any meaningful competition would develop between Applicant 
& All banking data are as of June 30, 1973. 
Acquisition of both Bank and Laconia Bank would increase Applicant's 
r e o f commercial bank deposits in New Hampshire to 6.8 per cent. 

4835 
-3-
and Bank in the future in view of New Hampshire's restrictive branch 
banking law and because the two organizations are closely associated, 
directors of Bank having a combined equity interest in Applicant of 
4/ 
over 50 per cent.~ 
Accordingly, approval of the proposed transaction 
will have no adverse competitive effects, and may, in fact, enable Bank 
to compete more effectively with the two largest commercial banks 
in Manchester, which together control 61.8 per cent of the SMSA's 
total commercial bank deposits. Moreover, there are two savings banks 
in the Manchester SMSA with combined deposits of approximately $356 
million. These institutions, both of which are substantially larger 
than Bank, offer keen competition for time and savings deposits, and 
one savings bank has recently introduced negotiable orders of with-
drawal (NOW accounts). 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and 
Bank are satisfactory and lend some support toward approval because 
Applicant's plans to expand further. Future prospects of Applicant 
and Bank are considered satisfactory, and affiliation with a holding 
company should improve Bank's future prospects. Although the record 
indicates that the banking needs of the communities involved are 
being adequately served, the convenience and needs factor is 
4/ Also as a result of New Hampshire's restrictive branch banking law, 
it appears unlikely that future competition would develop between Bank 
and Laconia Bank. 

;. . 4836 
-4-
consistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that the transaction would be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
made (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,*" effective December 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
5/ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
®Ucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting; Governoro Mitchell and Daane. 

4837 
Item No. 6 
12/12/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AUSTIN BANCSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Austin Bancshares Corporation, Austin, Texas, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
of Oak Hill National Bank, Oak Hill, Texas ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e r s o n s t o submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the appli-
Cation in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8«2(c)). 
Applicant, the fifteenth largest banking organization in 
Xas, has one bank with aggregate deposits of approximately $287 million 
^Presenting 0.83 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the 
Stat 
^ 
ce« 
Since Bank is a proposed new bank, its acquisitions would 
Either eliminate any existing competition nor immediately increase Appli-
Cant's share of commercial bank deposits in either Texas or the Austin 
batlking market. 
X/ x v — — 
, .,, ... 
com 
banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect bank holding 
Pany acquisitions and formations approved through October 31, 1973. 

4838 
-21-
The proposed site of bank will be in the Austin banking market 
(approximated by the Austin SMSA). Applicant's sole subsidiary bank is the 
largest of 17 banks in the relevant market, controlling 24.7 per cent of 
the market deposits. The second and third largest banking organizations 
the market control 23.0 and 17.9 per cent of market deposits, respec-
tively. Applicant's formation and acquisition of Bank will improve Appli-
cant's competitive position in the market but not to the extent that its 
Position will be so dominant as to foreclose others from entry. In view 
of the fact that the market's population has increased faster than the 
Sfcate average, it does not appear that acquisition of Bank by Applicant 
Would significantly reduce the prospects of future expansion or entry by 
°ther banking organizations. The Board concludes that approval of the 
aPplication would not eliminate any significant existing or future com-
petition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant and its subsidiary bank are regarded as satisfactory and consis-
tent with approval of the application. Bank, as a proposed new bank, has 
n° financial or operating history; however, its prospects under Applicant's 
Management appear favorable. 
Although there is no evidence that the major banking needs of 
t h e community are not being adequately met, Bank would serve as an additional 
s°urce of banking services. Therefore, considerations relating to convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served are consistent with approval. 

4839 
-3-
Accordingly, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would 
b e in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°*der or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) Oak Hill 
^tional Bank, Oak Hill, Texas, shall be opened for business not later than 
si* months after the effective date of this Order. Each of the periods 
Ascribed in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL} 
—__ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
Ucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisiton of Bank 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 80 per cent of the voting shares of Bank of Wildwood, Wildwood, 
Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
o f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Florida, controls 
banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.7 billion, which 
^presents approximately 8.4 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
. 
i/ 
°anks in Florida. 
Upon acquisition of Bank (deposits of approximately 
million), Applicant's share of deposits in the State would increase 
by an insignificant amount. 
Bank is the only bank operating in Wildwood, a small residential 
community (1970 population 2,500) located In the northeast portion of 
Sumter County, Florida. Bank's relevant market is approximated by the 
community of Wildwood and the immediately surrounding area. Applicant's 
All banking data are as of June 30, 1973, and reflect acquisitions 
aPproved by the Board through November 15, 1973. 
. 4840 
Item No. 7 
12/12/73 

: 4841 
-2-
banking subsidiary closest to Bank is located 45 miles to the east in 
^eltona, Florida. No significant competition exists between Bank, 
Applicant's Deltona subsidiary or any of Applicant's other banking sub-
sidiaries. It appears unlikely that any significant competition would 
develop in the future between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiary banks 
to Bank's small size, the restrictive nature of Florida branching 
laws, the relatively undeveloped character of the areas immediately adjacent 
t o the Wildwood market, and the number of banks located in areas outside 
this market. Moreover, the prospects of Applicant entering the Wildwood 
Market de novo in the near future appear remote due to the small size of 
that market and the rate of population growth in the area which is below 
average for the State. Although consummation of this proposal will 
result in acquisition by Applicant of the only bank in the T-Jildwood market, 
the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction is not 
likely to have a significant adverse effect on competition between Bank and 
a n y o f Applicant's banking subsidiaries or on banking competition in any 
Relevant area. 
Although the service area of Applicant's mortgage banking sub-
sidiary includes the Wildwood market, no significant competition exists 
between Bank and Applicant's mortgage subsidiary. During all of 1972, 
applicant's subsidiary originated only one small mortgage loan in all 
o f Sumter County, Florida. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
applicant and its present subsidiaries are generally satisfactory. Banking 
fa 
actors as they relate to Bank are satisfactory. There is no evidence 

4842 
-3-
that the banking needs of the Wildwood community are going unserved at 
thp 
ie present time, however inasmuch as it is proposed that upon affiliation, 
applicant will provide managerial and technical expertise to strengthen 
at*d expand Bank's existing services and allow Bank to modernize internal 
derations, convenience and needs considerations are viewed as lending some 
WG*ght toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisi-
tion is in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
Masons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or 
' later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
Such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
tSEAL] 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
jT"Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
er» a n d Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane 

Item No. 8 
12/12/73 
immediate release 
December 18, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System said 
today it will consider possible addition of underwriting the deductible 
Portion of bankers blanket bond insurance to activities permissible to 
bank holding companies. Comment will be received through January 24, 
1974. 
The Board will consider the question in connection with an 
application from Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, to acquire the 
voting shares of Chase Manhattan Captive Insurance Co., Denver. 
The application states that the proposed subsidiary would 
engagc in underwriting of insurance egainst losses due to criminal acts 
various kinds and other insurance of the type afforded to banks by 
bankers blanket bond insurance. As in automobile and other insurance, 
the premium on bankers blanket bond insurance is lowered when the insured 
accepts part of the risk in the form of a previously agreed deduction 
from the amount of the loss that the insurer is obliged to pay. The pro-
Posed subsidiary would insure Chase Manhattan Corporation, holding company 
for Chase Manhattan Bank, and certain of its affiliates, against losses 
arising from the deductible portion of Chase Manhattan Corporation's 
bankers blanket bond insurance. 
The Board is publishing notice of receipt of the application 
in the Federal Register. The Board invited comment on the question 

4844 
-2-
whether the proposed activity is closely related to banking, and on 
the question whether it would result in benefits to the public outweighing 
possible adverse effects. Any views or requests for a hearing should 
be addressed to the Secretary of the Board (Washington, D.C. 20551) not 
later than January 25, 1.974. 
A copy of the Board's order is ^attached. 
-0-

4815 
• 
— 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 225] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Application to Engage In the Underwriting of Bankers 
Blanket Bond Insurance (Deductible Portion Only); and 
Possible Rule Making With Respect Thereto. 
The Board of Governors has received the following application 
filed pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 
U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 
225.4(b)(2)) for prior approval to acquire shares of a company which 
will engage de novo in underwriting the deductible portion of bankers 
blanket bond insurance: 
The Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, has applied 
for permission to acquire voting shares of Chase Manhattan Captive Insurance 
Co., Denver, Colorado. 
Applicant states that the proposed subsidiary would engage in 
the activity of underwriting insurance for itself and certain of its 
affiliates against risks arising out of infidelity of employees, burglary, 
robbery, larceny or mysterious disappearance of property from premises or 
in transit, forgery, alteration or counterfeit and other insurance of the 
type afforded by the bankers blanket bond to major banking institutions 
in the United States* Applicant further states that the proposed under-
writing activities would be limited to insuring the deductible portion of 
the bankers blanket bond, i.e., that portion of the risk which is not 
Presently insured. 

_ 4846 
-29-
The Board has not heretofore considered whether the proposed 
activities are closely related to banking. Applicant is of ths opinion 
that the proposed underwriting activities are so closely related to 
banking or managing or controlling banks as to bs a proper incident 
thereto and notice of receipt of the application is being published 
Pursuant to § 225.4(a) of the Board's Regulation Y. 
In connection with this application, the Board will also con-
sider possible rulemaking to add the proposed activity t® the iicG e£ 
activities the Board has previously determined to be closely related tQ 
banking. 
Interested persons nee invftD^rto cscpress their views on 
the question of whether the underwriting of. the deductible portion ot 
bankers blanket bond insurance is so cflosely related to banking or 
fr-anagirtg 0r controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto, 
interested persona are dnvited to express their views on the queaeioa 
whether consummation of the subject proposal can "reasonably be 
e*pected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater conve-
nience, increased competition, or gains ia efficiency® that outweigh 
Possible adverse effects, such 
undue concentration of resources0 
decreased or unfair competition, conflicts ©£ inte^este, or unsound 
banking practices." Any request fox a hearing on this quesSfcon, or 
the issue o£ whether the? undetwriting of the deductible portion 
bankers blank©* bond insurance Is oo closely relatad to banking 
managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto 

4847 
-3-
should be accompanied by a statement summarizing the evidence the 
person requesting the hearing proposes to submit or to elicit at 
the hearing and a statement of the reasons why this matter should 
not be resolved without a hearing. 
The application may be incpected at the offices of the 
Board of Governors or at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Any views or requests for hearing should be submitted in 
Writing and received by the Secretary, Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C. 20551, not later than 
January 25, 1974. 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective 
December 18, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

a/l'--'? 
a V . 
IfJii* 
' . M L R t ^ . * 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• r 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4848 
Item No. 9 
12/12/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A O U R E G S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C ) R R C 3 P O N O E N C -
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 4, 1974 
The Honorable Donald C. Alexander 
Commissioner, Internal Revenue Service 
Internal Revenue Building 
1111 Constitution Avenue, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20224 
Attention: Director of Income Tax Division 
Dear Mr. Commissioner: 
The Board of Governors has received the following 
application filed pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and section 225.4(b)(2) 
of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.4(b)(2)) for prior 
approval to acquire shares of a company which will engage 
de novo in underwriting the deductible portion of bankers 
blanket bond insurance: 
The Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, 
has applied for permission to acquire voting shares of Chase 
Manhattan Captive Insurance Co., Denver, Colorado. 
The Board has published notice of receipt of the 
application and of possible rulemaking regarding the proposed 
activity in The Federal Register. Under section 4(c)(8) of 
the Act, the Board is required to consider whether performance 
of an activity by an affiliate of a bank holding company can 
reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public that 
outweigh possible adverse effects. Review of the application 
and of the possible rulemaking with regard to the activity 
indicates that many of the stated benefits are related to the 
tax treatment of the payment of insurance premiums by the banking 
subsidiaries of the holding company. 
\ 

4849 
The Honorable Donald C. Alexander 
-2-
Enclosed is a copy of the application and correspondence 
related thereto (confidential submissions have been omitted as 
has The Chase Manhattan Corporation's Annual Report), a copy of the 
Board's Press Release and Notice regarding the application and 
possible rulemaking thereto, and a copy of the Board's Regulation Y 
which includes a statutory appendix. We would appreciate receiving 
any comments you deem appropriate with regard to the application 
and of the possible rulemaking prior to January 25, 1974. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Theordore E. Allison 
Theodore 
Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 
\ 

4850 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FLORIDA NATIONAL BANKS OF FLORIDA 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Florida National Banks of Florida, Jacksonville, Florida, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8*2(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of North-
side Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida ("Miami Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
ai*d none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
t i on in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization in Florida has 
deposits of $1,186.1 million representing 6 per cent of total deposits 
lri commercial banks in the State, and controls 32 banks located throughout 
1/ 
Florida. 
Upon acquisition of Miami Bank (deposits of $10.6 million), 
Applicant's share of deposits in the State would increase by 0.1 percentage 
p°int and its rank among banking organizations in the State would be 
It 
^changed. 
^ 
All banking"data are as of December 31, 1972. 
V 
By Notice dated July 5, 1973, the Board informed the Trustees of the 
Alfred I. duPont Testementary Trust that the Board had made a preliminary 
^termination that the Trust exercised control and/or a controlling influence 
°ver Applicant. Upon the Trust's failure to contest this determination, and 
after notice of its willingness to divest its share holdings in Applicant, the 
B°ard ordered the Trust to divest its holdings in Applicant (constituting 
^proximately 24.7 per cent of Applicant's outstanding voting shares) as early 
a s Possible but in no case later than December 31, 1974. (Determination and 
°*der for Divestiture of Control dated October 15, 1973.) Details of the 
bust's divestiture plan have not yet been approved by the Board. 
Item No. 10 
12/12/73 

4851 
-2-
Miami Bank is located in the Greater Miami Banking Market 
which includes all of Dade County and portions of southern Broward 
County, Florida. Miami Bank controls approximately 0.3 per cent of the 
deposits in commercial banks in the market. Three of Applicant's sub-
sidiary banks are located in this market and control a total of approxi-
mately $227 million of deposits, representing approximately 4.6 per cent of 
deposits in commercial banks in the Miami market. Applicant's two subsidiary 
banks closest to Miami Bank are located, respectively, approximately three 
miles north and eight miles south of Miami Bank. Some direct competition 
exists between Miami Bank and all three of Applicant's Miami area subsidiary 
banks, some direct competition would be eliminated as a result of consummation 
o f Applicant's proposal. Miami Bank derives more than 65 per cent of its 
total deposits and approximately 60 per cent of its total loans from the 
area served by Applicant's second largest subsidiary bank, Florida National 
Bank and Trust Company, Miami, Florida (deposits of about $164 million). 
In the circumstances of this matter, particularly Miami Bank's 
datively small size, and the large number of competing banks located in 
t h e Miami area, elimination of Miami Bank as a competitor of Applicant would 
have only a slightly adverse effect on existing competition in this market 
and a minimal effect on the concentration of banking resources in this 
area. Moreover, acquisition of Miami Bank by Applicant may serve to in-
crease future competition among the largest banking organizations in the 
^iami area where Applicant ranks seventh, with control of approximately 5 

-3-
4852 
Per cent of deposits. The largest banking organization in this market con-
sols more than 23 per cent of bank deposits and each of the next two lar-
gest organizations controls approximately 9 per cent of bank deposits. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposal herein would not substantially lessen competi-
tion nor have a significant adverse effect on competition and may, in fact, 
have a beneficial effect upon the development of future competition among 
banking organizations in the Miami area. 
The financial condition and managerial resources and prospects of 
^PPlicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as generally satisfactory. 
These factors as they relate to Miami Bank are regarded as consistent with 
aPproval. Affiliation with Applicant should enable Miami Bank to draw 
uP°n the additional financial and managerial resources of Applicant, 
^though there is no evidence in the record that the banking needs of the 
^iatni area are going unserved, consummation of the proposed acquisition 
should enable Miami Bank to expand the quality and range of its banking 
including consumer finance, financial counseling, computer and 
trust services presently offered by Applicant's subsidiary banks. Con-
aerations relating to the convenience and needs of the Miami area are 
insistent with approval. 
In light of the Board's Determination and Order for Divestiture 
Control of Florida National Banks of Florida, Inc., issued on October 15, 
requiring the Alfred I. duPont Trust to divest its share holdings of 

4853 
-4-
APplicant, an acquisition by Applicant would be regarded by the Board as 
n acquisition by the duPont Trust, a "company" engaged in nonpermissible 
activities under the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act. However, 
G duPont Trust, through its Trustees, has formally committed itself to 
diy 
est its holdings of shares of Applicant as soon as possible but in no 
event later than December 31, 1974; and pursuant to the Board's Determination 
and Order of October 15, 1973, the duPont Trustees are required to submit 
to the Board a plan of divestiture containing provisions to assure termination 
of Lne control and/or the controlling influence found to exist. In view of 
the 
e duPont Trust commitment to divest control of Applicant and in light of 
G Board's requirement that an appropriate plan of divestiture be submitted 
the Board, the Board concludes that the proposed acquisition may go 
°rWard, provided, however, that the transaction shall not be executed 
-j 
r to approval by the Board of a plan of divestiture by the duPont 
Tt 
U s t of control of Applicant. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
sons summarized above and subject to prior approval by the Board of 
plan of divestiture by the duPont Trust of control of Applicant. In 
^ i t i 
b*fore 
on to the condition so imposed, the transaction shall not be made (a) 
the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
e r or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 

4854 
-5-
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 20, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B, Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
Ucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

. 4855 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R 5 
T4. 
M 
- _ 
Item No. 11 
D F ™E 
12/12/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAL C O R R E S P Q N O C N C E 
TO T H E B O A R D 
December 20, 1973 
REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Florida National Banks of Florida, Inc. 
Florida National Bank Building 
Jacksonville, Florida 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has approved the following application filed pursuant to the 
fiank Holding Company Act: 
Florida National Banks of Florida, to acquire Northside 
Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida. The Board conditioned its Order upon 
approval by the Board of a plan of divestiture to be submitted by the 
trustees of the Alfred I. duPont Trust, with respect to that trust's 
holdings of share of Florida National Banks of Florida. 
Enclosed is material related to the Board's action. 
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the action herein approved is 
t o be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be 
Siven in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
'SuEsS? 
Enclosures 
