MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 4, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Letter on bank loan commitments. 

l l o < 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, April 4, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Pierce, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 

114 
4/4/73 
-2-
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Monetary policy alternatives. At the meeting on March 9, 
1973, the staff reported on its contingency planning for possible 
monetary policy actions in a tight money environment; the economy 
now seemed to be approaching that situation. Today's agenda called 
for discussion of three of the various actions the staff had 
suggested—a supervisory admonition regarding bank loan commitments, 
a special supplemental reserve requirement on large-denomination 
certificates of deposit, and a restructured reserve requirement on 
tturo-dollar borrowings. 
It was proposed that a letter be addressed by the Federal 
bank supervisory authorities to banks under their respective juris-
dictions with deposits exceeding $100 million to draw their attention 
to the need for awareness of their aggregate loan commitments and 
for adequate planning for availability of funds to honor takedowns. 
The letter would also indicate that expanded reporting of bank loan 
commitments would be instituted. A draft of such a letter had 
accompanied a memorandum of March 19, 1973, in which the staff discussed 
the problems relating to bank loan commitments and the use of docu-
mented discount notes. The draft letter had been discussed by the 

113B 
4/4/73 
-3-
Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, which had 
suggested changes that were not substantive. The Conference of 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks had been requested to comment 
the March 19 memorandum and draft letter. The Conference had 
approved a report by its Committee on Regulations, Bank Supervision, 
and legislation that endorsed the sending of the letter but stressed 
the need to develop better definitions than were now available for 
bank loan commitments to make the proposed reporting requirements 
more effective. 
Discussion centered principally on a passage in the draft 
letter that would indicate that banks with deposits in excess of 
$100 million would be requested to publish the total of their 
commitments as a memorandum item in their reports of condition, 
and that banks with deposits in excess of $1 billion would be 
requested to make monthly reports of the volume of their commitments 
to their Federal supervisory authority. Questions were raised 
regarding the interpretation that might be placed on commitment 
figures if they were made public. Comments on reporting difficulties 
brought out that while the Board's quarterly survey of bank loan 
commitments, in which only a relatively few large banks participated, 
W a s admittedly inadequate, its institution several years ago had 
r®sulted in at least some movement toward surveillance by banks of 
their commitments. The circumstances that might give rise to commitments 

4/4/73 
-4-
w e r e still diverse. For example, a bank might send letters to corpo-
rations with favorable financial statements offering a line of credit 
a stated amount. The search for better definitions should include 
appraisal of the relative obligation of a bank for such variations 
a s a line of credit unsolicited by the customer, a commitment without 
charge, and a commitment for which a fee was paid. There was also 
a need to insure that informal commitments were recorded. 
This part of the discussion concluded with agreement that it 
would be premature to attempt to expand reporting requirements 
for bank loan commitments until a better definition of such commitments 
could be drawn for inclusion in the new reporting system. It was 
Hl^££tood that the Board's Committee on Financial Statistics would 
undertake to develop such a reporting system, with recourse to the 
extent deemed desirable to a task force of Reserve Bank research and 
bank examination officers as suggested by the Conference of Presidents. 
There was also agreement that the passage regarding reporting 
requirements would be deleted from the draft letter, with substitution 
o f a sentence indicating that steps were being taken by the bank 
supervisory authorities to obtain current information periodically 
a s to ongoing developments with respect to bank loan commitments, 
^he sending of the letter, after agreement among the bank supervisory 
agencies regarding this and other changes suggested, was approved 
unanimously. It was understood that the letter would be signed by 

±141 
4/4/73 
-5-
Chairman Burns but transmitted to State member banks in the $100 
million deposit category with a covering letter from Federal Reserve 
Bank Presidents. A copy of the letter in the form in which it was 
subsequently transmitted is attached as Item No. 1. It was understood 
that a press release would be issued. 
The staff had explored several alternative actions relating 
to increased reserve requirements, and recommended one in which a 
10 per cent marginal reserve requirement would be imposed on increases 
in certificates of deposit of $100,000 and more, with the amount of 
such CD's outstanding at the time of the action providing a base free 
from that requirement. The impact of the proposal was intended to 
fall principally upon the large money center banks, xvhich had been 
Primarily responsible for the recent rapid expansion in business loans 
to large corporations. 
It was not contemplated that discussion would lead to action 
today; the purpose was rather to reach tentative agreement on the 
framework of an action that might be taken in the near future if 
unfolding money and credit developments signalled a need for restrictive 
action. 
Discussion included consideration of other kinds of reserve 
requirement action, including an increase in the reserve requirements 
applicable to all outstanding CD's of large denomination, and an 
increase in reserve requirements on demand deposits. The principal 

4/4/73 
-6-
disadvantage of these actions was that they would fall upon all banks, 
regardless of size or location. It was observed that the effect of 
a comprehensive reserve requirement increase could be accomplished 
through open market operations. 
Exploration of the side effects of a marginal reserve 
requirement brought out that in addition to falling principally 
°n the institutions that were generating business loan expansion, 
it would place less additional burden on System membership than 
would comprehensive action. On the negative side, it was mentioned 
that it might have an appearance of selective credit control of a 
type that might foster proposals for using monetary policy to 
allocate funds to particular economic sectors. Also, a restriction 
that fell primarily on large banks and corporations might be diffi-
cult to reverse in the future. 
It was suggested that imposition of a marginal reserve 
requirement on large CD's be accompanied by elimination of the 
ceiling rates of interest on such instruments with maturities of 
90 days and more. Ensuing comments examined the question whether 
greater restrictive effect would be achieved through increased cost 
°f funds or decreased availability. It was estimated that the 
Proposed 10 per cent marginal reserve requirement would result in an 
increase of 40 basis points in the cost of funds to banks. The view 
was expressed that even if this cost was passed along in the form of 

4/4/73 
-7-
an increase in the prime rate, borrowing by large corporations probably 
would not be deterred to any great extent, and elimination of the 
ceiling rate of interest that might be paid on large CD's of the 
longest maturities would remove a present restriction on availability 
of funds. 
Another theme of the discussion was the possibility that if 
banks were hard pressed for funds from usual sources, most of the 
larger ones could turn to their parent holding companies, which 
directly or through subsidiaries might issue commercial paper and 
channel the proceeds to the bank. The larger holding companies could 
usually command the most favorable rate for their paper, and the 
Proceeds were not subject to reserve requirements. Or a bank that 
was unable to accommodate a loan request might refer its customer to 
its parent holding company. It was believed that new legislation 
w°uld be necessary for imposition of reserve requirements on liabilities 
holding companies or their subsidiaries. 
One member of the Board expressed doubt that such a new 
direction for bank credit was likely to occur easily; banks could not 
sllift gears rapidly, and customers might be reluctant to deal with 
a holding company. Another member suggested that some cooperation 
might be elicited by sending a letter to bank holding companies 
requesting that they restrict their commercial paper issues. 
Comments were made also on the possibility of enlisting 
v°luntary cooperation of nonmember banks to restrict their loan expansion. 

- U 4 4 
4/4/73 
-8-
It was suggested that even if the banks would not respond to such 
a request, an appeal to State bank supervisors might produce results, 
since the latter were public servants. If cooperation could be 
obtained, the Federal Reservefs efforts would be assisted; if it 
could not, the justification of the Board's advocacy of uniform 
reserve requirements for all commercial banks would be demonstrated. 
Chairman Burns then requested an expression of tentative 
views regarding a proposal for imposition of a 10 per cent marginal 
reserve requirement on increases in CD's of $100,000 and over, 
accompanied by elimination of the ceiling rates of interest on such 
certificates under Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits. Other members 
the Board except Governor Daane indicated that such an action 
would be acceptable if conditions warranted it in the near future. 
Governor Daane said that for the sake of the Board's image he would 
3°in in the reserve requirement action if the majority considered it 
necessary, but he would not be in favor of eliminating the interest 
rate ceilings because he believed that such action would offset the 
restrictive effect of the reserve requirement increase. Moreover, 
he believed that the foreign banking community would regard the 
combination of actions as a net liberalization. 
One of the staff proposals discussed on March 9, 1972, directed 
toward plugging loopholes through which banks might seek alternate 
sources of funds , was that the Board withdraw the proposal now 
outstanding for comment under which a 10 per cent reserve requirement 

114 
4/4/73 
-9-
would be imposed on all Euro-dollar borrowings (the present reserve 
free base being eliminated), and substitute for it a reserve require-
ment of 5 per cent on the amount now outstanding and 10 per cent on 
increases. In the light of comments received, which had been summarized 
by the Division of International Finance in a memorandum of January 31, 
1973, the staff now recommended a phase-out rather than elimination 
of the reserve-free bases in order to reduce inequities to a few large 
banks that had maintained their reserve-free bases, partly in a 
spirit of cooperation with System objectives in establishing the bases. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated a predominant view 
among members of the Board in favor of a phase-out rather than 
elimination of the reserve-free bases. 
Attention focused on the competitive inequity suffered by 
U.S. banks because U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks could 
use Euro-dollars to make loans to banks or commercial customers in 
the U.S., without being subject to reserve requirements. It was 
noted that such institutions had responded reasonably well to moral 
suasion in 1969 , and there was general agreement with a suggestion 
that they should be requested to conduct their operations in the U.S. 
as if they were subject to the same restrictions that governed 
domestic banks. 
Comments on the flows of funds that would probably result 
if the Board lowered the reserve requirement on Euro-dollar borrowings 

4/4/73 
-10-
and phased out the reserve—free bases led to a summarizing remark 
that there appeared to be marginal benefits on the international 
side and marginal adverse effects on the domestic side. 
There was majority agreement on the desirability of action 
in the near future providing for a phase-out of reserve-free bases, 
a reduction in the reserve requirement on Euro-dollars above the 
bases from 20 to 10 per cent, and administrative or moral suasion 
measures to place U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks on an 
equal footing with U.S. banks. Responses to a query whether the 
members would favor combining such an action with imposition of a 
marginal reserve requirement on the increase in large CD's indicated 
substantial sentiment against such a combination. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the staff was requested 
to draft a letter asking U.S. branches and agencies of foreign 
banks to abide by the rules applicable to domestic banks, and to 
explore the probable impacts of different combinations of reserve 
requirements on Euro-dollar borrowings and time periods permitted 
for the phase-out of reserve-free bases. 
Governor Mitchell reported on the tenor of discussions by 
the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation regarding 
the recently-increased use of documented discount notes, that is, 
notes created when a bank attaches its letter of credit to a customer' 

4/4/73 
-11-
commercial paper, thereby providing a guarantee that the bank will 
repay the note if the customer defaults. Information was being 
assembled to indicate to what extent large banks were engaging in 
the practice. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Ct 
Secretary 

±141 
Item No. 1 
4/4/73 
CHAIRMAN O F THE BOARD O F GOVERNORS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 3 5 1 
April 6, 1973. 
TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF EACH STATE 
- . 
MEMBER BANK WITH DEPOSITS EXCEEDING $100 MILLION 
Dear Sir: 
I am writing to you about a matter of concern to all members 
- of the Board--the heavy volume of bank loan commitments to commercial 
and industrial companies and financial institutions. Banks supervised 
by other Federal banking agencies are receiving similar letters, so 
that the attention of all banks likely to have substantial loan commit-
ments will be drawn to the need for appropriate loan commitment policies. 
I'v loan commitments we refer to all of your bank's official 
Promises to lend which have been expressly conveyed to your customers, 
•typically by means of either a formally executed commitment agreement 
or a letter signed by one of your officers confirming the availability 
of a line of credit of specified size. 
There is no question as to the legitimacy of--and the need 
for--bank loan commitments. They-serve the purposes of sound business 
Planning, both for banks and their customers. It is the intention of 
the Federal bank supervisors that this practice continue, but that it be 
based on careful .judgment., in the interests of a sound banking system 
and healthy economic expansion. The apparent large volume of bank 
commitments currently outstanding and sharply increased takedowns there-
under are indicative gf the need for special attention to this subject 
at this time. 
Each bank should maintain a record of the aggregate volume of 
its commitments to lend. Furthermore, it should periodically make a 
careful judgment as to the potential volume of takedowns of these 
comrnitmehts under reasonably foreseeable circumstances, including 
periods of strong as well as weak loon demand, and the appropriateness 
of the credit risks involved to its overall capital position. Finally,^ 
it should give adequate consideration as to how it would obtain the funds 
to meet such takedowns in sound and timely fashion, giving due allowance 
to the possibilities for changing conditions in the local and national 
economy and in the central money marketa. 

1149 
- 2 
Federal bank examiners will henceforth ask the management of 
each bank they examine to demonstrate that it is giving adequate atten-
ti on to the above principles. Steps are also being taken by the bank 
** supervisory authorities to obtain current information periodically 'as 
to ongoing developments with respect to bank loan commitments.. ( 
We confidently expect that banks will cooperate in this 
•Program to help insure that bank loan commitments play a sound and 
useful role in the financing of business activity. 
. Sincerely yours, 
/S/ Arthur F. Burns 
l 
Arthur F« Burns 
