MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 23, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 5 Amendment to Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits." 

<r»f > 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 23, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Director for Management, 
Office of Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board authorized issuance of an interpre-
tation to clarify the provisions of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, with 
tGgard to prepaid and other types of finance charges. A copy of the 
interpretation is attached as Item No. 1. 

•JO 1 1 
8/23/73 
-2-
In response to a request from the House Committee on Government 
Operations for the Board's views on bills that would authorize the 
Comptroller General to audit the Board and the Federal Reserve Banks 
and branches, the Board unanimously approved a proposed letter, with 
certain additions, stating the Board's position. It was agreed that 
a copy of the letter would be sent to the Comptroller General. Attached 
a s Item No. 2 is a copy of the letter. 
The Board approved, Governor Bucher abstaining, the application 
of First National Bank of Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona, to establish a 
branch in Nassau, Bahamas. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Irving Inter-
national Financing Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares 
Irving Trust Assessoria e Consultoria Limitada, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Marine Midland 
international Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of 
Rappresentanza Marine Midland Bank-New York S.p.A., Rome, Italy. A copy 
°f the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Hawkeye 
incorporation, Des Moines, Iowa, to acquire shares of Farmers Savings 
Sank, Grundy Center, Iowa, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 6. 

39 * K 
8/23/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Newton 
Bankshares, Inc., Topeka, Kansas, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of shares of The First National Bank of Newton, Newton, 
Kansas, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A 
copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Fort Worth 
National Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to Commercial Bank & Trust Co., Midland, Texas, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved the continued service, through 
March 31, 1974, of Mr. John J. Clarke as the Federal Reserve System 
Representative to a United Nations study group that is considering a 
Proposed uniform law on the use of negotiable instruments in interna-
tional trade. Copies of the letters sent to the United Nations and to 
the Department of State are attached as Items 9 and 10. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Citizens and Southern Holding Company. In a memorandum of 
August 22, 1973, the Legal Division made a recommendation, in which the 
division of Supervision and Regulation concurred, that the Board affirm 
the action of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta rejecting protests 
a§ainst and approving the proposal of Citizens and Southern Holding 
Company, Atlanta, Georgia, to engage de novo in mortgage lending activities. 

8/23/73 
-4-
Citizens and Southern had submitted a proposal to commence mortgage 
banking activities in 11 cities in Georgia through a newly-formed 
subsidiary, Citizens & Southern Mortgage Company. The Legal Division 
also recommended that the Board affirm the action of the Atlanta Bank 
in approving a concurrent proposal of Citizens and Southern Holding 
Company to engage de novo in factoring activities in three areas in 
Georgia and North Carolina. 
In today's discussion, consideration was given to the over-all 
situation and operations of Citizens and Southern in the State of 
Georgia, including various recent and pending legal matters, the possibility 
°f undue concentration, and the business practices of this organization. 
While it was generally agreed that special care should be exercised in 
dealing with Citizens and Southern applications to expand its activities 
in the State of Georgia, the present application for de novo entry into 
the mortgage market was thought not to be objectionable, especially in 
view of the small proportion (approximately 3 per cent at the end of 
1972) of mortgage loans in the State of Georgia held by Citizens and 
Southern. Similarly, there was no objection to the factoring activities 
Proposal. 
The Board unanimously affirmed the action of the Atlanta Bank 
in having approved these two proposals. It was understood that documents 
implementing the Board's decision would be prepared for consideration 
a t an early date. 

U ^ ' t / 
8/23/73 
-5-
Amendmerit to Regulation Q. In a memorandum of August 21, 1973, 
the Legal Division recommended adoption of an amendment to Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits, that would treat as a payment of a time deposit 
before maturity any amendment to the time deposit contract that would 
result in either an increase in interest rate or a change in the maturity 
of the deposit. The proposed amendment had been published for comment 
on July 24, 1973, and in making its recommendation the Legal Division 
had taken into consideration the comments received on the proposal. 
Today's discussion focused on the wording and the effective 
date of the amendment, taking into account the circumstances of member 
banks and the Board's desire to coordinate its action with that of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The FDIC had adopted a similar 
ruling, to become effective September 10, 1973, which differed somewhat 
from the Board's proposed amendment in wording but not in substance. The 
staff of the Legal Division pointed out the advantages of the wording used 
in the Board's proposed amendment and the varied comments received from 
Member banks as to the best effective date. 
The Board then unanimously approved the amendment, as proposed, 
effective September 10, 1973. A copy is attached under Item No. 11, 
along with a copy of the pertinent press release. 
In a related action, the Board decided to hold in abeyance the 
Possibility of taking action that would parallel an FDIC ruling that 
n°nmember insured banks could accept up to $500,000 in ceiling-free, 

. 3iM8 
8/23/73 
-6-
4-year certificates of deposit, without regard to the limitation that 
such accounts not exceed 5 per cent of a bank's total time and savings 
deposits. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation D. In a memorandum of August 20, 
1973, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended approval 
of an amendment to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, that would 
eliminate an accounting practice related to funds transfers which, in 
effect, lowers the amount of deposits on which reserves must be maintained. 
The Division further recommended that the Board propose to the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation that all Federal bank examiners 
be alerted to the possible use of this practice. 
In a memorandum of August 21, 1973, the Division of Research and 
Statistics supported the proposed amendment to Regulation D in order to 
minimize the long-run impact of this accounting practice on the monetary 
aggregates. 
In today's discussion, the staff emphasized that this practice 
by 
member banks was spreading and thus eventually could have a significant 
effeet on monetary policy. In view of the seriousness of the situation, 
the Board developed a consensus to proceed at this time to curtail such 
accounting procedures. 
The Board authorized publication for comment of the proposed 
amendment to Regulation D, with certain additional wording. A copy of 
ttle proposed amendment in the form published in the Federal Register is 

3 2 4 9 
8/23/73 
-7-
attached as Item No. 12. The Board also agreed to bring this matter 
to the attention of the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank 
Regulation. 
Mr. O'Connell briefly reviewed the issues and reported to the Board on 
staff progress with respect to a proposal by Citizens and Southern 
Holding Company, Atlanta, Georgia, to sell thrift notes. He indicated 
that the staff would complete its work on this matter for possible 
Board action next week. 
Proposed sale of thrift notes by a bank holding company. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Assistant Secretary 

Item No. 1 
8 / 2 3 / 7 3 
3250 
S-2245-a 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
Add-on and discount finance charges as "prepaid finance charges." 
This interpretation intends to make clear that the typical 
add-on" or "discount" charge or other precomputed finance charge 
°n 
instalment contract or other obligation need not be labeled a 
n 
Prepaid" finance charge. 
^ 226.819 Prepaid finance charges; add-oris and discounts 
(a) Sections 226.8(c)(6), 226.8(d)(2) and 226.3(e)(1) require 
certain finance charges be disclosed as "prepaid finance charges." 
Th 
also require that such prepaid finance charges be excluded or 
^Uctod from the credit extended in arriving at the "amount financed." 
th 
question arises whether add-on, discount or other precomputed 
narice charges which are reflected in the face amount of the debt 
^^ument as part of the customer's obligation, but which are ex-
*Uf-Wc! from the "amount financed," must be labeled as "prepaid" 
lnHnr-e charges. 
(b) The concept of prepaid finance charges was adopted to 
that the "amount financed" reflected only that credit of which 
c Ustomer had the actual use, ^recomputed finance charges which 

3Or-.* 
- 2 -
are Included in the face amount of the obligation are not the type 
contemplated by the "prepaid" finance charge disclosure concept. 
Although such precomputed finance charges are'not to be'includcd in the 
'amount financed," they need not be regarded as finance charges "paid 
separately" or "withheld by the creditor from the proceeds of the credit 
extended" within the meaning of § 226.3(e) to require labeling "prepaid" 
under §§ 226.8(c)(6) and 226.8(d)(2). 
They are "finance charges", of course, 
t o be disclosed under §§ 226.8(c)(8) and 226.8(d)(3). 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1638 and 15 U.S.C. 1639). 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore 
Allison 
(Signed) Theodore Allison 
^ ^ 
Theodore Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
3o r o 
Item No. 2 
8/23/73 
August 24, 1973 
Honorable Chet Holifield 
Chairman 
Committee on Government Operations 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D.C. 
20515 
M r. chairman: 
v.aiU vr'iting in response, to your request of July 9 for the Board's 
SaTr>u l 
R* 9 0 5 2 £ m d H' R- 9 0 S 3 ' b i l l s introduced by Representative 
Gg 
, ° n S v ; n i c h v ; o u I d • among other things, authorize the Controller 
1 u'~rai to conduct annual audits cf the Board of Governors, the Federal 
Rr, 
Reserve Banks and their branches. 
Mr. Gibbons subsequently introduced 
II. R, 9285, and our comments encompass that bill as 
f si^ilar bill, 
Veil. 
Tha t v 
• , 
c 
"Ccita oi Coverno: 
by the 
bo. 
pa.p.c' 
Jj ui'a '.-e:ier: 
responsibil: 
, 
^conaisuer, 
rnmmty. 
? LCi i.C 
Arcoun! 
' c'.L'.C V. 
t-ho 
thn i 
. Cf." 
audit o: 
• r 
;rve 
t n e F e d e i* a 1 R e s 
• — v^AOj vouid result: in over-
uccii clonal exoenso, and vould 
•,'itn the. principle of inc c 
ce of the nonetar 
Xh 
tc 
0 accot 
ounts of the Board of Governors are audited each ve< 
bv 
P £1 i c' 
1
1?ut o u t s i d e f i r n or- certified public, accountants. 
No restrictions 
eport C C d 0:1 t h e a u d i t o r 3 
i n 
conduct of their duties. 
Thair audit 
ePo~t
 1 8 r e _ ? r c d u c e d i n L h c board's annual report, and copies of the 
the o 
a r c f w i s h e d 
t 0 the House Ccr.-mittee on Banking and Currency and 
senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. 
te 
r 
Fcde 
B o ^ . b t : B o a r d ' s s taf £ of l ie 1 d examinc:r 
yG<lt ;°Gtra] Reserve Ba 
bv 
T * it 
to determine the £i 
nu branch is examined at least once each 
vho are directed bv the 
'10 
CXg: 
ina:-
uit with 
nnncial condition of the B: 
d 1 i c a b 1 e 
:nd cornDiiance 
G
^
^ nation include" a comprehensive 
n a t u T 1 L " u s t o d e te rmin ;• 
fir^1"? 'Appropriate for a R 
.j." L.IC 
•.serve 
P r o v i s l o n s c J. i a v.* a r. a 
cvicw of each 
1 " Afl-lt'Vft] 1 , 
pre 
v. U 
i <-- j,U 1 J. L 
. .. i» t , 
DiUUv a 
.1 
ion. 
mx. 
c o r a 
n outside commercial accounting 
O n r P ^ 3 a B C d 
t 0 a c c o r"P a ry the Board's examiners on their examination 
v e s e r v a Bank each year, to provide an outside evaluation of the 
a n d effectiveness of the examination procedures. 

f ' 
- 
2 
-
The Honorable Chet Holifield 
In addition to the annual examination by the Board's examiners, 
the operations of each Reserve Bank are audited by the Bank's 
internal auditing staff 011 a year-round basis under the direction 
of a resident general auditor. 
He is responsible to the Bank's 
board of directors through its chairman and its audit committee, 
and is thus independent of the Bank's operating management. 
Each 
year, the Board's examiners review thoroughly the audit programs 
at all the Reserve Banks to see that the coverage is adequate and 
^ e procedures effective. 
Congress has thus designated the Board of Governors as its "GAO" 
*,or purposes of reviewing the operations of the Reserve Banks. 
The Board reports directly co Congress, and always stands ready 
l o provide any information Congress seeks about expenditures by 
the System. 
If still another arm of Congress were directed to 
audit the Reserve Banks, the result would be overlapping responsi-
ilxty, with consequent reductions in efficiency and increases in 
costs. 
Jn this connection, may I note that the members of the Board testify 
£ r 0 q u e n L1 y 1 n d 1 u 11 y at Con - r a s s i c n a 1 hea r i r. g s on the p o l i c i e s 
a n ci 
^ c t I. v i 11 e s oi: t1: a I' a a e r a 1 R -L S e. r v a ? va C •; 
1 1 c* Board re tj 0 r t s 
extensively on its oneratioiv, to the Con.;rvss and the general public: 
<1 n ^ M 
* > 
• 
* 
"" 
. 
t.va uoara reports promptly ana £u}.ly to special congressional 
^nquiries — particularly, inquiries by congressional commit tees 
Evolving the System's operations, policies, and expenditures. 
moreover, a degree of confidentiality is essential in conducting 
j^any oi the System's functions, including examination of State member 
> fermulat ion and implementation of monetary policy, and opera-
c , C n s conducted with and on beaaii of foreign central banks. 
Granting 
access to ail System records ccuiu pose problems in assuring the 
cnfide:11.ia 1 it.y necessary to these operati0ns. 
ina],ly> if. should be emphasized that, in reviewing agency operations, 
typically goes far beyond a. simple financial audit. 
Besides 
J o y i n g accounts and determining.that expenditures- are properly 
ll-.3:ol]ed and authorised, GAO typically makes -ud.aments about whether 
<3 rams authorized by Congress are fulfilling the purposes Congress 
J-1oaed j whether thev are no longer needed, and on other policy 
tt"" 
T 
" 
c r s« 
In the sensitive area of mcnetary policy, Congress has 
» 

- 3 -
32 54 
The Honorable Chet Holifield 
vested decision-making responsibility in the Federal Reserve System, 
and has established safeguards to ensure that the System will 
exercise professional and entirely independent judgment. 
Injection 
of policy critiques by GAO would be inconsistent with this long-
established policy of Congress. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns " 

O o r r 
OtJOO 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
8/23/73 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
5 Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T C 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 23, 1973 
First National Dank of Arizona 
First National Bank Plaza 
0. Box 20551 
Phoenix, Arizona 85036 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to First National Bank of Arizona, Phoenix, 
Arizona, pursuant co the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that 
>P 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
|°t as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
ttited States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no 
c°ntact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
c°ntract by another party. 
_ 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
0£ eo°ing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
^ these types of activities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
^°"ified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
gam.st deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
S 
. U t benefit of the exclusions in provisos (1) and (2) of 
irft3"Cri 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that: adequate 
°rmation covering the branch's operations will be maintained 
, ^ol'r head office and will be available to the Board and its 
o f
 re,iited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed 
ch,**y modification in the branch's methods of operation, including 
-uges in any contract under which services are supplied to the 
Jranch. 

o o r -
O i ^ O 
First National Bank 
of Arizona 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
bu siness on or before September 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in location 
°f the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
Payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the 
States of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt 
from any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 
aud Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D. The general 
Purpose of these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United 
States banks to compete abroad with foreign banks. 
In these cir-
cumstances, it has long been and continues to be the policy of the 
federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by United States 
residents at foreign branches of United States banks unless such 
aePosits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose in 
connection with foreign or international transactions outside the 
United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
^aPital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
yicw of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
Vestments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
the condition that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
U •
' 
reIisnce will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
U t e d States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
-quired will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
n°y apply to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3257 
B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C . 
20551 
• FTHE Item No. 4 
8/23/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 23, 1973 
Irving International Financing Corporation 
°ne Wall Street 
York, New York 
Gentlemon: 
As requested in your letter of July 10, 1973, the Board 
governors grants consent for your Corporation ("IIFC") to purchase 
all the shares of Irving Trust Assessoria e Consultoria 
^mitada ("ITAC"), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at a cost of approximately 
-iOjOOO, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
G of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
4 a r es of ITAC by IIFC is granted subject: to the following conditions: 
(1) That IIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in ITAC if ITAC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if ITAC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to IIFC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, IIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of ITAC as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by ITAC be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if ITAC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

0/J0C3 
Irving International Financing Corporation 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by ITAC in Brazil in the 
currency of that country. 
You have requested consent for ITAC to engage in the business 
providing consulting services outside the United States. The Board's 
consent, is granted subject to the condition that such services relating to 
the U. S. market will be confined to the initial entry of foreign companies 
Into that market. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Now York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of ITAC. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester S. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3259 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R 5 
_ _ 
Item No. 5 
• F T H E 
8 / 2 3 / 7 3 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 23, 1973 
Marine Midland International Corporation 
250 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 6, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to 
Purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all of the shares 
°f Rappresentanza Marine Midland Bank-New York S.p.A. ("RMMB"), 
Rome, Italy, at a cost of approximately It.Lire 15,000,000 
(about $25,000), provided the shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
This consent is granted, on the condition that RMMB 
a°ts as Marine Midland Bank-New York's.representative office and 
c'°nfines its activities to those that are normal for a representative 
office of a U.S. bank in Italy. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to Marine Midland Bank-New York and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
'P* 
n ui * 
t h' 
Chaster B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3260 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/23/73 
HAWKEYE BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Hawkeye Banccrporation of Des Moines, Iowa, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Eank Holding Company Act, has applied 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
acquire 79 per cent or more of the voting shares of Farmers Savings 
Bank, Grundy Center, Iowa ("Bank") 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e r s o n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
® J(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n 1ight of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant presently controls 12. banks with aggregate deposits 
of 
^proximately $275 million, and is the fifth largest banking organization 
i n 
t 
° W a. Consummation of the proposed acquisition would increase Applicant's 
S e °f the total commercial deposits in the State from 3.3 per cent 
t o 3.4 
Per cent, and Applicant would become the fourth largest banking 
r8anization in Iowa. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972.) 
Rank, with deposits of approximately $10 million, and 12 per cent 
of tli 
total market deposits, is the third largest of the eleven banks 
P^ting 
tk e Qrun(jy center banking market which is composed of Grundy 
a Portions of Butler, Hardin and Tama Counties. 
^ 
H o Id pro ~c 
Per q, 
r s of the remaining 21 per cent are to be offered the same price 
Q r e a s agreed to be paid for the 79 per cent. 

3261 
-2-
Applicant's banking subsidiary nearest to Bank is approximately 
59 miles away in Newton. There is currently no competition between Applicant 
and Bank and, in view of the distance separating the facilities, little 
likelihood of future competition. 
The composite financial condition of Applicant's member banks 
considered satisfactory and Applicant has reasonably sound financial 
resources. Although the proposed acquisition would entail'the assumption 
o f additional debt, the amount of this indebtedness is not considered 
e*cessive in view of the overall capital position of Applicant and 
i t s subsidiary banks. Applicant has proposed issuing debentures before 
end of 1973, the proceeds to be used to retire a portion of its 
short-term debt. 
There is no evidence that the convenience and needs of the 
Grundy Center market are not being adequately met. 
However, if the 
Plication is approved, Applicant's experience and expertise would 
nable Bank to improve the quality of service it offers the community. 
Pecifically, Applicant proposes to widen the range of loans made by Bank 
a more progressive loan policy, to improve the trust services offered 
by fc 
a n* through Applicant's lead bank's specialized "Trust Committee,'' and 
S i s t Bank in bidding on local bond issues. Thus, the factors 
^ating to convenience and needs of the community to be served are 
nsistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation 
of 
e Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that 
^Plication should be approved. 

-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Sheehan, Bucher and 
Hand. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane and Brimmer. 

3263 
• FTHE Item No. 7 
8/23/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NEWTON BANKSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
First Newton Bankshares, Inc., Topeka, Kansas, has applied for 
fch 
e Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 
*S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
Ctluisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of the First 
Nationai Bank, Newton, Kansas ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P O Y , 
n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 
°f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
e Board has considered the application and all comments received 
of the factors set forth in § 3(c)' of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, recently organized for the purpose of becoming a 
8 company, has engaged In no business activities and has no sub-
Gs- 
Bank (deposits of $14.7 million) is the smallest of three 
n k s in M 
1 owton, Kansas, ranks third of eight in the relevant banking 
^ 
aPproxiuiated by Harvey County, and controls approximately 21 per cent 
the area 1 
deposits. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1972). The 
in light 
b*nk 
action ^ 
is merely a reorganization whereby the shareholders who control 
at the 
Present time will control Bank through Applicant. Accordingly, 
concludes that consummation of the proposal will not eliminate 
V ^isti n c or-
b 
r Potential competition, increase concentration of banking 
u*ces » 
have an undue adverse effect on the other banks in the 
area. 

3 2 G 4 
-2-
The management, financial condition and prospects of Bank are 
satisfactory. The management of Applicant is essentially the same 
a s that of Bank, and the financial condition of Applicant, which will 
dePend largely upon Bank at least initially, appears to be satisfactory. 
A Moratorium on dividends by Bank for the first year and a reduction 
hereafter from the level of recent years will permit Bank to achieve a 
° r e a t e r degree of capital adequacy. It appears that the acquisition debt 
b y Applicant will be satisfactorily amortised. Bank's capital has been 
teadily increased over the past five years. Considerations relating to 
he convenience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent 
approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
consistent with the public interest, and that the application 
be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
8° n s Su®niarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
b*f0re 
thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
/ . V 
later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
r 
reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
order of the Board of Governors .^effective August 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
tSP 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
-AL] 
1/ 
tnd Ii°nthis a c t i o n : Chairman Burns and Governors Sheehan, 
dimmer 
d' Absent and not voting: Governors, Mitchell, Daane 

3 C 6 S 
Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/23/73 
THE FORT WORTH NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Fort Worth National Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t, has applied for the Boardfs approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842 (a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less direc-
t s * qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to Commercial Bank 
& Trust Co., Midland, Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to 
be 
merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acq-
uisition of the voting shares of Bank, Accordingly, the proposed 
aC(luisition of the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed 
accJuiaition o f t h e s h a r e s o f B a n k 4 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
r S° n s t o submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
S 3(|,\ 
f the Act. The time for filing comments, and views has expired, 
arid « 
has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion in i. 
•light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
18*2 CO). 
Applicant controls six banks with aggregate deposits of about 
$8?8 miln 
Hon, representing 2.5 per cent of the total deposits of commercial 
n k s in th c 
cne State. Applicant ranks as the fifth largest multibank 
company and the sixth largest banking organization in Texas and 
J°Cated in p 
Worth, Riverside State Bank, and Tarrant State Bank, all 
h dill8 C 
r t W o r t h > a r e d e c m e d subsidiaries for purposes of the Bank 
ai)ks and°R P^ y A c t b y v i r t u e of Applicant's fiduciary holdings in said 
n d § 2(a)(5)(A) of the Act. 

3266 
-2-
fche largest in the Fort Worth banking market, where it controls approxi-
"Jately 31 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the rrwrket. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect bank holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through June 15, 
J / J.) 
In addition, Applicant controls approximately 24 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of each of tv/o other banks located in the Fort Worth market, 
h°lding aggregate deposits of $74.1 million. Applicant also owns in 
eXceas of 5 per cent of the shares of the First National Bank, Paducah, 
XeHas. upon consummation of the acquisition of Bank ($30.3 million in 
(lePosits), Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in the State 
0uld increase by 0.08 per cent and its rank would remain unchanged. 
Bank is located in Midland, Texas, and, as the sixth largest of 
banking organizations serving the Midland-Odessa banking market, 
n t rols 6 per cent of that market. Applicant's closest existing 
bsidiary bank is located approximately 250 miles north of Bank. 
(Ap-
Pli^F* •»«YI T, 
* 
has filed an application to acquire 100 per cent of Levelland 
State Bn i 
- 
Levelland, Texas, approximately 140 miles north of Bank; if 
V c d> the Levelland State Bank would become Applicant's subsidiary 
nearest 
to Bank.) It appears that no meaningful competition exists 
bettyeen any of Applicant's existing or proposed subsidiary banks and 
Bat*. 
The second, third, fourth, and fifth largest banks in the 
essa banking market are members of bank holding company organi-
2attons. Bank's small size would preclude its engaging in meaningful 

-3-
3 2 6 7 
competition with these organizations. Consummation of the proposal 
i 
• 
herein may produce procompetitive effects by introducing into the 
market an organization of sufficient financial strength to make Bank a 
vigorous competitor in its market. In view of the distances involved, 
and the Texas law prohibiting branch banking, consummation of the pro-
posal herein would not appear to have an adverse, effect on future 
competition between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries. The Board 
concludes, on the basis of the record before it, that consummation of the 
Proposed transaction will not have an adverse effect on competition in 
ny relevant area and may, in fact, serve to stimulate competition in 
the 
e Midland-Odessa banking market. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of At>D-| * 
leant and its subsidiaries appear satisfactory. The financial 
Conditi 
°n and managerial resources of Bank are fair. As a subsidiary 
applicant, however, Bank's prospects for future growth and service 
a meaningful competitor in the Midland-Odessa area would be significant-
ly £ 
roved. The expected strengthening of Bank's financial position by 
° a n t l e n d s weight to approval of the application. 
Although there is no evidence in the record to indicate that 
^ e bankino 
ng needs of most residents of the Midland-Odessa area are not 
eing a d Q quately served by existing institutions, provision of Applicant's 
e*PertiSG i 
in trust department operations, international banking, and 
Petr°chemi 
m cal financing through Bank should provide a more convenient 
8° U r c* for « 
etiese sophisticated services to customers located in Bank's 
of 
as 

3268 
-4-
tnarket. The convenience and needs considerations of the community to 
be served are consistent with and lend support to approval of this 
application. It is the judgment of the Board that the proposed trans-
ition is in the public interest and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tho 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
a°r or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
^rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
tv 
e Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority, and 
further provided that the transaction shall be in compliance with the 
Pr°visions of § 3(e) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(e)) regarding status 
s 
insured bank as defined in § 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1813 (h)). 
1/ 
By Order of the Board of Governors, effective August 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
lsEAl] 
17 
and H° t i n 8 f o r t h i s a c tion: 
°iland. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Sheehan, Bucher, 
Governors Mitchell, Daane and Brimmer, 

M I W 
•Mt-F.t^.-
B D A R D 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
3 2 6 9 
• FTHE Item No. 8 
8/23/73 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL COREriPaMOCNCC 
TO THE BOARD 
August 23, 1973 
ft1'. Constantin A. Stavropoulos 
The Legal Counsel 
Unit ed Nations 
East 46th Street 
New York, Nov; York 
10017 
Mr, stavropoulos: 
There has been referred to the Board your letter of June 
29 > 1973 j addressed to President Hayes of the Federal Reserve Bank 
New York, advising of the proposed meeting in Paris c.cirraencing 
tlle week of October 1, 1973, of the United Nations Coitmission on 
International Trade Law with representatives of international organ-
Nations and banking and trace groups. You advise that, at this 
there will be further discussion of tne or art untiert: law 
ional bills ci e"change and intcrruticnal promissory 
been undertaken by a study group under the auspices 
the secretariat cf the Cor/mission. 
Mcetiiv 
intern 
n n t - 'rhich has 
Regarding the forthcoming Paris meeting, you have lequested 
thc participation of Mr. John J. Clarke whose service as a representa-
tive of the Federal Reserve Systc-n was made available to you, as de-
S cUbed in the Board's letter of January 4, .1973, addressed to The 
honorable Richard D. Kearney, Chairman, Advisory Committee on Private 
or national Law, Department of Si 
The 
l rd 
in reccLot or 
4 Request of similar nature with respect to continuation of Mr. Clarke 
Scrvice f 
Si--* 
1t a t c. 
Ptc 
Gr 
rom Mr, George H. Aldrich, Acting Legal Adviser, Department 
Aid rich refers to a forthcoming meeting in Stockholm 
'Paratory to a January 7-IS, 1974 meeting of the UNCITKAL Uorkinj 
°up in 
Yor 
Cit' 
Upon review by the Board of its original action in desig-
Mr, Clarke, the Board has determined that Ml, Clarke'^ servi 
it
U'0lJoh March, 1974 will equally well serve the Board's purpose in 
's ° r i g i m 1 designation. Accordingly, the Board has approved the 

Mr. Constantin A. Stavropoulos 
- 2 -
continuation of Mr. Clarke's service through March, 1974, on the 
same terms and understandings set forth in the Board's letter of 
January 4, 1973. One such understanding stated in the Board's 
letter would call for the Department of State to assume Mr. Clarke 
travel expenses incident to the proposed Paris conference. Sirnila 
advice of approval and related understanding has been forwarded to 
Mr. Aidrich. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
C c : Mr. Edward G. Guy 
General Counsel " 
Federal Reserve Bank of Hew York 

p 
M l fijfcM 
i^f-'V. 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
t-J^ f j 
• FTHE Item No. 10 
8/23/73 
ADDRESS OrnCIAL CO«ME5f>CK/OENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
August 23, 1973 
George II. Aldrich, Esq. 
Acting Legal Adviser 
department of State 
Washington, D. C. 
20520 
D°ar n r. Aldrich: 
This acknowledges your letti 
kUClUS t 
19' 
° U c e to the Board's action of January 4, 1973, designating Mr. John 
Clarke to serve as the representative of the Federal Reserve 
System on the study group reviev.'ing, under auspiccs of the United 
Rations, a proposed uniform law on the use of negotiable instruments 
11 international trade transactions. 
hi* 
Your August 2 letter urges an extension by the Board of 
Clarke's detail to the study group, particularly in light of a 
Proposed .iseeting in New York from 
f1('Ced(id by a meetinc; oi the sane 
hoiv 
lanuarv /-io, 
in ! >oth 
You have 
meetings 
pressed a de 
i ^/h j v.eicn .is to u; 
orkiiv; .-jroup to be held in Stock-
to have Mr. Clarke participate 
A similar request for Mr. Clarke's- continued participator 
1 development of the proposed uniform law on international trade 
l i a b l e instruments has been received fro 
, avropoulos, Legal Counsel, United Nations. 
i c>I* i- , 
I97 
nt ions 
«. . 
tin.. i, O U IIWUJ. l»v:j-lll I .v.. V• c. i. 1 IjT, J-il V. iltv.ll I'll • VliLil. I.t- J j 
is desired. 
Mr. Constantin A. 
Mr. Stavropoulos' 
meeting in Paris during the first week of October, 
first near-term meeting in which Mr. Clarke's particina-
of 
th 
The Board has considered your current request in the light 
original purpose in designating Mr. Clarke and has determined 
^ C l a r k e ' s continued service on the study group, through March 
* 1974, will benefit the interests originally sought to be served. 
i^COrciingly, Mr. ClarKe 
«natiou through March 33 
will be advised or the extension ci his ces-
1974, on the same teri.s and understandings 

O O 
M ^ <- /C 
George II. Aldrich, Esq. 
- 2 -
set forth in the Board's letter of January 4, 1973. One such under-
standing seated in the Board's letter calls for the Department of 
State to assume Mr. Clarke's travel expenses incident to any proposed 
conference outside the United States. Any necessary arrangements in 
this regard can be completed with the Board's Controller, Mr. John 
Kakalec (telephone: Code 147, extension 3551). 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 11 
8/23/73 
F°r immediate release 
August 23, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
tod*y an amendment to Regulation Q, effective September 10. Regulation Q 
(1eals With the payment of interest on deposits at Federal Reserve member 
b*nks. 
This action defines any amendment to a time deposit contract 
fcha t 
results in an increase in the interest rate, or a change in the 
of the deposit, as a withdrawal of funds subject to penalty. 
The amendment was proposed by the Board July 24. 
It was 
^dop*. | 
p 
a-ter consideration of comment received and following consul-
a t e ^ .• 
with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal 
L L°an Bank Board. 
d 
0 f the 
The amendment to Regulation Q would treat any change in a time 
POGxt 
contract -- generally, certificates of deposit -- that results ii 
i nc r e c 
-^se in the rate of interest to be paid, or changes the maturity 
deposit, as a withdrawal before maturity. 
The penalty for early 
o t deposits would therefore apply. 
ihc early withdrawal penalty differs according to the date the 
1 C contract was entered into: 
. For time deposit contracts entered into, or amended 
° r renewed after July 5, 1973 (when a new schedule of 
ma-:imum interest rates on time deposits went into effect) 

3JJ 
- 2 -
the penalty is in two parts, (a) a reduction of the rate 
of interest paid to the maximum permissible passbook 
rate for the entire time the deposit has been held, and 
(b) a loss of three months interest. 
For all other time deposits, the old penalty rule 
applies. This states that a bank may pay a time deposit 
before maturity only in an emergency where early with-
drawal is necessary to prevent great hardship to the 
depositor, plus forfeiture of up to three months accrued, 
unpaid interest. 
A copy of the Board's order relating to this matter is 
ached. 
- 0 -

3
« V-If— 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCMPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Payment of time deposits before maturity 
On July 24, 1973, the Board of Governors invited public comments 
tn 
submitted by August 13, 1973, on a proposed amendment to its Regula-
tion Q that WOuld treat, as a payment of a time deposit before maturity, 
clUy aniendmeiit to the time deposit contract that results in either an increase 
'in 4 
interest rate or a change in the maturity of the deposit (38 Federal Re-
20103.). Such treatment would noan that the penalty for early 
u^rowals, provided in § 217.'4(d) of Regulation Q, would apply at the 
e of any such amendment to the contract. 
After consideration of all comments received, the Board has decided 
a^opt the proposal. At the sane time, the Board decided to reveke 
its •! 
interpretations of Regulation Q published at 12 CFR 217.102, 217.122, 
a n d 217.123. 
Effective September 10, 1973, section 217.4(d) of its Regulation 
Q ( J 2 CFR 217) is amended by adding a new sentence at the end thereof to 
*ad as follows: 
§ 2J7 , T 
' r Payment _of_time deposits before maturity. 
Any . 
(d) Penalty for early withdrawals. 
* * 
* 
utTiondment of a time deposit contract that results in an increase i' 

3276 
-35-
Uie rate of interest paid or in a change in the maturity of the deposit 
constitutes a payment of the time deposit before maturity. 
* 
* 
ft 
* 
The effective date was deferred for less than the 30-day period 
referred to in Title 5, United States Code, section 553(d), because the 
found the general credit situation and the public interest comr»^i i -,,-] 
it 
c° make the action effective no later than the date adopted. See § 262.2(e) 
°f ^ e Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.2(e)). 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSKAl] 

I / 
Item No. 12 
8/23/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
r12 CFR Part 204] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Definition of Gross Demand Deposits 
The Board of Governors proposes to apply reserve requirements 
eSainst: certain accounts classified among ,:0ther liabilities'* against 
vlUch reserves are presently not maintained. The certain "Other 1 la-
ta ' i 
^•ty" accounts against which reserve requirements will now apply are 
^ose accounts which a member bank has created to balance its books 
a*-ter debiting demand deposit accounts (or any other accounts for the 
transfer of funds). 
For example, member banks, at present, sometimes exchange 
l G c k s i u the late afternoon or evening, and may debit an account on 
d ay the checks were received, while not making settlement until 
G following business day. Some banks balance their books until the 
business day by creating an 'Other liability" account the night 
that hv, 
0 oebit is posted. On the next business day, the "Other lia-
b iHtv« 
* account is debited and the check is paid. The Board of Gcv-
w Proposes to regard that ;,0ther liability11 account as a "deposit" 
i n 8 t wI*ich reserves must be maintained. 
' Other liability ! accounts that are used for other purposes 
not be affected, e.g. bills payable for services and supplies 
tGc*iver] 
• ®nd for which payment is not yet due. 

t O 
-37-
There arc- several reasons why the Board proposes the change. 
The. use of an "Other liability" account for this purposes involves a 
°ne business day delay in crediting accounts after debits are. posted and 
the practice may deprive customers of the use of funds in a way that 
is difficult to detect and is misleading. The Board is also concerned 
that the practice outlined above can result in understatement of the 
®oney supply. Also, a bank that became accustomed to the practice 
described may have problems in adapting to any electronic payments 
mechanisn that will require simultaneous credits and debits. Finally, 
t h e practice allows the level of required reserves to be lower than the 
Board intended. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
interested persons are invited to submit relevant data views, and arguments 
AriV such material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, 
Bo-
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, 
t o be received not later than October 12 , 1973. Such material will be 
Q d e available for inspection and copying upon request, except as 
pr°Vided in § 261.6(a) of the 3oard's Rules Regarding Availability of 
formation. 
To implement its proposal, the Board proposes to amend 
8ecti 
°n /04.1(g) of its Regulation D (12 CFR Part 204) by adding a new 
Sentv*n 
e at the end thereof to read as follows: 
Definitions 
* 
rt 
(S) Gross demand deposits. 
* 
* 
* 

-3-
3273 
"Gross demand deposits" also includes any obligation to 
Pay a check (or other instrument, device, or arrangement for the 
transfer of funds) drawn on the Bank,where the account of the bank's 
customer has already been debited. 
* 
* 
-k 
& 
* 
By order of the Board of Governors^Septetaber 7, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore S. Allison 
Theodore 2. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
c 
