MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 12, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
Squired to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
deferred to below: 
Page 1 Increase in discount rate. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Friday, January 12, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 3:20 p. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Discount rate. On January 11, 1973, the Board had discussed 
Proposals by several Federal Reserve Banks to increase the discount 
rate from its present level of 4-1/2 per cent. The directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco had voted on January 4 to raise 
the rate to 4-3/4 per cent and the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Panics of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, and Dallas had voted on January 11 to advance the rate to 
5 per cent. Advice had now been received that the directors of the 
Scleral Reserve Bank of Philadelphia had voted today to increase the 
rate to 5 per cent. During yesterday's discussion, there had been 

1/12/73 
-2-
general agreement that an increase to 5 per cent would be desirable, 
but views had differed on the precise timing of the increase. 
During today's discussion Chairman Burns stated that after 
further reflection he had concluded that the balance of considerations 
weighed in favor of announcing a higher rate today. He saw a possi-
bility that the System's objectives might be misinterpreted in light of 
the Phase III program that had been announced yesterday, but the question 
whether or not a delay of a few days might help to avert any such 
"Misinterpretation could not really be answered. In any event, he was 
c°nfident that the statements he had given to a number of reporters 
yesterday regarding his firm support of the Phase III program would tend 
to minimize any unintended reaction to a discount rate increase. More-
over, the fact that the directors of several Reserve Banks had taken 
action to raise the rate argued against an extended delay in the interest 
°f deducing the chances of an embarrassing leak of information. 
During ensuing discussion other members of the Board indicated 
SuPport for acting today to increase the discount rate. Mention was 
a8ain made of the advantages of taking action prior to the upcoming 
Meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on January 16 and of avoid-
l nS an announcement of a rate increase on January 15 when the Treasury 
Would be conducting its regular weekly bill auction. A possible 
disadvantage in making the announcement today was the risk of aggravating 
the current weakness in stock prices, although it was suggested that a 

IJJS2 
1/l2/73 
-3-
higher discount rate might in fact tend to have a constructive impact 
0 n the stock market. 
After further consideration, including the review of a draft 
press release, the Board approved by unanimous vote the establishment 
°f the following rates by the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas 
City, and Dallas, effective Monday, January 15: 5 per cent on discounts 
and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal 
Reserve Act; 5-1/2 per cent on advances to member banks under section 10(b) 
the Act; and 7 per cent on advances to individuals, partnerships, and 
corporations other than member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 
the Act. It was understood that the rate on any loans to nonmember 
banks granted in special circumstances resulting from the implementation 
o r recent changes in Regulation J would be made at 5 per cent. 
Staff reported that actions were expected later in the day from 
a H of the Reserve Banks that had not already established a rate of 5 
P e r cent, and the Board's Secretary was authorized to approve on behalf 
the Board any proposals to raise the rate to 5 per cent received from 
th°se Banks. 
Issuance of a press release this afternoon in the form attached 
a S — e m N o• 1 was authorized. 
(Note: Prior to issuance of the press release, advice was 
received that the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 

1/12/73 
-4-
New York, and San Francisco had established a discount rate of 5 per 
Cent, together with appropriately corresponding subsidiary rates.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Tiptx,,-. 
'i 
OV '-<>:. 
= 
h: J J.- ]t: •!>> /A jl 
]&*]£ .p;- jr 
vJLlJf^t 
Item No. 1 
1/12/73 
F o r immediate release 
January 12, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
aPptoved actions by the directors of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks 
easing the discount rates of those banks from 4 1/2 per cent to 5 per 
effective Monday, January 15. 
This trove is designed to bring the discount rate into better 
all gnment with short-term nprket. interest rates, which have risan sub 
stantialiy over recent months. The widened gap between the discount rate 
other sources of bank funds has contributed to a sharply increased 
of borrowing by banks .from the Federal Reserve, in recent weeks. 
l)°tiT>3 the four weeks ended January 10, member bank borrowings averaged 
v' % l Million, about double the average level of borrowings for the period 
fioiy early October through mid-December. 
The. Board1 s action raised the discount /ate to the 5 per cent 
that prevailed 
OK August 15, 1971, when the Government's economic 
Hg.^tion juovram began. The discount rate is the rate charged member 
b- 
1 
"v,al'ls for bo rrowing Crow their district Reserve Bank for funds for U'm-
pOr ••. v 
c,i'y »seasonal or emetgeucy purposes. 
The present increase o>: the discount rate is merely a passive 
M justrc&nt to what has already happened to market interest rates and it, 
""'-^^fo'cc. should not be the occasion for a fur thai* increase in interest 
