MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 27, 1973 

3 ^ 8 0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, August 27, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance If 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on 
August 16, by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on August 21, and by 
t1:ie Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, 
St* Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on August 23, 1973, of 
th 
e rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules was 
•^2£oveci unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would 
b e sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Boston Overseas 
financial Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, for permission to (1) acquire 
A/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

328i 
8/27/73 
- 2 -
shares of First Financial Boston, Pty. Limited, Melbourne, Australia; 
(2) continue to hold shares of First Financial Boston after it issues 
borrowings with a maturity in excess of one year; and (3) transfer to 
First Financial Boston shares of First Leasing Australia, Limited, that 
are now held by the applicant. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Economic review. The regular weekly economic and financial 
review was presented. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of 
the individual briefings. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Assistant Secretary 

3 2 S 2 
P I P 
B O A R D D F 
• D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
8/27/73 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL. CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 27, 1973 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
100 Federal Street 
fioston, Massachusetts 
02110 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 4, 1973, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BOFC") to purchase 
^ d hold all of the shares of First Financial Boston, Pty. Limited 
V FFB"), Melbourne, Australia, at a cost of approximately A$2,000,000 
v.about $2.8 million), provided the shares are acquired within one 
^ a r from the date of this letter. In this connection, approval is 
also granted for the purchase and holding of shares of FFB by your 
corporation in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in 
provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal 
deserve Act. 
o f 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of FFB by B0FC is granted subject to the following condi-
tions : 
(1) That BOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in FFB if FFB at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if FFB establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Australia or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to BOFC; 
( 2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BOFC 
v/ill furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FFB as it may require from time to 
time; 

Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
- 2 -
3283 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FFB be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if FFB were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That all assets and liabilities of FFB shall be fully 
reflected in consolidated financial statements of its 
parent institutions filed with Federal bank regulatory 
authorities or issued to the public. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (x, 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by FFB in Australia in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
ank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of FFB. 
You have requested consent for FFB to engage in the business 
underwriting or dealing in securities. 
The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned upon 
y°ur Corporation's obtaining the prior consenc of the Board for the 
continued holding of shares of FFB should FFB acquire stock of indi-
1(iual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 25 per 
^ent or more of the voting shares of any company, except in the case 
underwriting operations covered by firm commitments from subunder-
in 
-S ° r o t ^ e r purchasers. With respect to trading in securities 
^^ which Corporations are prohibited from investing by the provisions 
the^10 ei?lU~h paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, 
a c
G B°ard's consent is further conditioned on the fact that FFB will 
andUirC Suc*1 shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size 
and t u r n o v e r 
inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, 
dl-spose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
b0 , 
l n this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
are.leP°rtGd u n d G r Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
qui s
t 0. b e r GP o r t e c l as a separate class, together with the date of ac-
bv nIt:i"0a' o n any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested 
y t h e Board. 
stand. 
Board also grants consent for FFB to issue and have out-
not 
borrowings with a maturity in excess of one year in an amount 
lie as j ° e x c e e c* $35 million and for FFB to hold the shares of First 
dltio
n^ Australia which are currently held by BOFC, subject to the con-
set fortli in the Board's letter of April 3, 1969. 

Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
-3-
3284 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition thac the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to The First National Bank of Boston and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
