MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 27, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act entries covering the items in this set of 
Minutes commencing on the pages and dealing with the subjects 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Revision of Appendix A of Regulation P, 
Minimum Security Devices and Procedures 
for Federal Reserve Banks and State Member 
Banks. 
Page 8 Disapproval of proposed discount rate increase. 

o J i» A.' 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 27, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Conne11, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr, King, Senior Financial Economist, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved revisions 
t o Appendix A of Regulation P, Minimum Security Devices and Procedures 

3 7 0 3 
9/27/73 
-2-
for Federal Reserve Banks and State Member Banks, effective November 1, 
1973, that reflected slight modifications in the revisions approved 
for publication for comment on December 11, 1972. Copies of the 
press release announcing this action and of the Federal Register 
notice are attached under Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bank of the 
Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, to make an investment in bank premises 
in excess of the limitations specified in section 24A of the Federal 
Reserve Act. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized issuance of orders reflecting its approval, 
on August 29, 1973, of the applications of D. H. Baldwin Company, 
Cincinnati, Ohio, to acquire shares of five banks located in Colorado: 
(1) North Denver Bank of Denver, Denver; (2) First National Bank of 
Grand Junction, Grand Junction; (3) First National Bank of Glenwood 
Springs, Glenwood Springs; (4) First National Bank in Aspen, Aspen; 
and (5) First National Bank North, Grand Junction; and as an incident 
thereto to merge with First Western Slope Corporation, Grand Junction, 
and First McKinlay Corporation, Glenwood Springs. Copies of the orders, 
along with a copy of Governor Brimmer's dissenting statement, are 
attached under Item No. 3. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order, with changes in 
wording, reflecting its approval, on September 18, 1973, of the 

3 7 0 4 
9/27/73 
-3-
application of Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, Dover, Delaware, 
to acquire shares of Citizens Mortgage Corporation, Southfield, 
Michigan. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. It was 
understood that Governor Bueher would issue a concurring statement 
at a later date. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its 
approval, on September 14, 1973, of the application of Mellon National 
Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to acquire shares of Carruth 
Mortgage Corporation, New Orleans, Louisiana. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 5. It was understood that Governor Bucher 
would issue a concurring statement at a later date. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of American 
National Holding Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan, to acquire shares of 
The American National Bank in Western Michigan, Allegan, Michigan, a 
proposed new bank. The Board authorized issuance of an order reflect-
ing this decision, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Old Kent Financial Corporation. With a memorandum of Septem-
ber 25, 1973, the Legal Division presented a draft order reflecting 
Approval by the Board, on September 13, 1973, of the application of 
Old Kent Financial Corporation, Grand Rapids, Michigan, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to The Peoples State Bank of Holland, 

o / KfO 
9/27/73 
-4-
Holland, Michigan. In the discussion, dissatisfaction was expressed 
with respect to certain parts of the proposed order, and it was 
understood that the staff would submit a revised draft. 
Financial General. In a memorandum of August 13, 1973, the 
Divisions of Research and Statistics and of Supervision and Regulation 
recommended approval of the applications of Financial General Bank-
shares, Inc., Financial General Corporation, and The Morris Plan 
Corporation, all of Washington, D. C., to acquire additional shares 
of American National Bank of Maryland, Silver Spring, Maryland. 
At today's meeting, Mr. O'Connell reported on a possible 
violation by Financial General of the terms of the Board's order of 
August 31, 1973, conditionally approving Financial General's application 
to acquire additional shares of Clarendon Bank & Trust, Fairfax County, 
Virginia. Mr. O'Connell recommended that the Board defer action on 
the present applications pending further study of the possible violation. 
After discussion, the Board agreed to defer action on the current 
aPPlications until the possible violation concerning Clarendon Bank & 
Trust is satisfactorily resolved. It was understood that the staff 
would prepare a letter to Financial General regarding this matter for 
consideration by the Board next week. 
Proposal by U.S. Postal Service. In a memorandum of Septem-
ber 26, 1973, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations and the 
Legal Division recommended approval of a letter to the United States 

3 7 0 6 
9/27/73 
-5-
Postal Service setting forth the Board's position regarding a proposal 
by the Postal Service to amend the Private Express Statutes. 
After discussion, the proposed letter was approved in principle, 
it being understood that the letter would be revised in the light of the 
discussion and that the revised letter would be submitted to Governor 
Mitchell for final approval. A copy of the letter sent to the United 
States Postal Service is attached as Item No. 7. 
General Financial Systems. Before the Board today were appli-
cations of General Financial Systems, Inc., Riviera Beach, Florida, 
to acquire shares of (1) First National Bank and Trust Company of 
Lake Worth, Lake Worth, Florida, and (2) First National Bank and Trust 
Company of Jupiter/Tequesta, Tequesta, Florida. In their joint memo-
randa of September 19, 1973, the Divisions of Research and Statistics 
and of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial- of the Lake Worth 
application and conditional approval of the Tequesta request. 
In his remarks in today's discussion, Mr. King of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta recommended approval of both applications. 
Discussion focused on three issues: 
(1) the degree of competition between 
the applicant's lead bank and the two banks General Financial Systems 
Proposed to acquire, (2) the extent of the applicant's existing control 
°f the two banks, and (3) the delineation of the market areas involved. 
After discussion, the Board approved the application to acquire 
shares of First National Bank and Trust Company of Lake Worth, 

3 7 0 7 
9/27/73 
-6-
Governor Brimmer dissenting on the basis of the effect of the proposal 
on competition. The Board approved unanimously the application 
concerning First National Bank and Trust Company of Jupiter/Tequesta. 
It was understood that documentation to implement these decisions 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Suburban Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum of September 19, 
1973, the Divisions of Research and Statistics and of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended denial of the application of Suburban 
Hancorporation, Hyattsville, Maryland, to acquire shares of Farmers 
and Mechanics National Bank, Frederick, Maryland. 
Following a discussion that emphasized the adverse effects 
on competition that would result from approval of the acquisition, 
the Board unanimously denied the application. 
It was understood that 
documentation to implement this decision would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration. 
Standard and Chartered Banking Group Limited. In a memorandum 
°f September 24, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
recommended approval of the application of Standard and Chartered Banking 
Group Limited, London, England, to acquire shares of Mocatta Metals, 
Inc., New York, New York. With a memorandum of September 26, 1973, the 
Lega 1 Division submitted a draft order that would implement that recom-
mendation. Mr. O'Connell recommended that the draft order be revised 
t o state that approval would be conditioned on the termination by 

3 7 0 8 
9/27/73 
-7-
Mocatta Metals of its dealings in platinum, palladium, and other 
commodities within six months after consummation of the proposal. 
The application previously had been submitted under section 
4(c)(9) of the Bank Holding Company Act. At its meeting on August 2, 
1973, the Board, although inclined to approve the application, directed 
that it be resubmitted under section 4(c)(8), in which form it was 
presented today. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion on the condition recommended by Mr. O'Connell and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 8. 
Proposed Federal funds transactions. 
In a memorandum of 
September 20, 1973, Mr. Axilrod presented a request by the staff of 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board for the Board's views regarding the 
FHLBB's proposal to engage through the Federal Home Loan Banks in 
Federal funds transactions for the account of its member savings and 
loan associations. Mr. Axilrod recommended that an informal response 
be made in which the Board would indicate its preference that the 
FHLBB should move slowly in instituting any such program, particularly 
in view of the Board's current restrictive monetary policy and the fact 
fchat the proposed activity might tend to increase bank credit availability. 
After a discussion during which some concern was expressed by 
individual Board members regarding the proposal, it was understood that 

3 7 0 9 
9/21/13 
-8-
the staff would obtain more information and would prepare a letter 
to the FHLBB for the Board's consideration. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation Y. At its meeting on July 3, 
1973, the Board approved publication for comment of a proposed amendment 
to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, concerning deposit-taking 
activities and certain other functions of nonbank trust companies that 
are affiliated with bank holding companies. 
In view of the comments 
received, the Legal Division, in a memorandum of September 14, 1973, 
recommended changes in the proposed amendment and submitted a revised 
draft notice for publication for comment. 
Today's discussion centered on the degree of restriction that 
the amendment should provide with respect to (1) the types of banking 
activities-~particularly accepting deposits and making loans--of nonbank 
trust company affiliates of bank holding companies, and (2) the place-
ment of trust company funds, received in the form of deposits, with 
an affiliated bank. 
In light of today's discussion, the staff was requested to 
revise further the draft notice for publication, which would be consid-
ered by the Board next week. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, 
Bernard, Broida, Melnicoff, Partee, Coyne, and Axilrod. 
Discount rates. On September 24, 1973, the Board had consid-
ered an action by the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 

3 7 1 0 
9/27/73 
-9-
City to raise the discount rate from 7-1/2 to 8 per cent. Three of 
the four Board members present at that meeting had indicated a prefer-
ence for disapproving the pending increase while the other member 
said he wanted to approve the action. After discussion it was 
decided to postpone a decision until more Board members were present. 
During the course of today's discussion, majority sentiment 
again developed in favor of disapproving the pending increase. 
Governors Mitchell, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland supported the view 
that an increase in the rate would not be timely in light of the 
accumulating evidence of considerable moderation in the growth of 
the monetary aggregates and the large declines in short-term market 
interest rates over the course of recent weeks. It was noted, for 
example, that the 3-month Treasury bill rate was now somewhat below 
the discount rate and that in this situation an increase in the latter 
was likely to have a sharp impact on market sentiment and short-term 
market rates. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he did not share the majority 
Position. 
In his view an increase in the discount rate would be consis-
tent with the maintenance of a restrictive monetary policy stance and 
would tend to have a favorable effect on inflationary expectations. 
The sharp reductions in market interest rates stimulated by anticipa-
tions of an easier monetary policy were a development he would not want 
to see sustained. 

9/27/73 
-10-
With Governor Brimmer dissenting, the Board voted to disapprove 
the pending discount rate increase. It was understood that a letter 
outlining the reasons for the Board's decision would be sent to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and that the substance of the 
letter, without identification of the Bank involved, would be 
communicated to the Presidents of the other Federal Reserve Banks. 
The Secretary was authorized to advise any other Reserve 
Banks that might take action today or tomorrow to raise the discount 
rate that the Board had disapproved a higher rate. Following the 
Meeting, a wire was received from the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
indicating that the directors of that Bank had voted today to raise 
the discount rate to 8 per cent. In keeping with the Board's authori-
zation, the Chicago Bank was advised by the Secretary of the Board's 
disapproval of the pending increase. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City is attached as Item No. 9; a similar letter was sent to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. A copy of the memorandum sent 
to the Presidents of the other Federal Reserve Banks is attached as 
jtemjfo. 10. 
Other discount rates. With Governor Brimmer dissenting, the 
Board approved actions taken by the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Atlanta on September 14, Boston on September 17 and again on 
SePtember 25, and New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and San Francisco 

3 7 1 2 
9/27/73 
-li-
on September 20, 1973, establishing without change the rates on advances 
and discounts in their existing schedules. 
It was understood that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg 
and MeInicoff. 
Potential space needs. Mr. Melnicoff reported on the status 
of plans under consideration to renovate the Board's present building 
upon completion of the new Martin Building next spring, and he observed 
that the Board would have substantial additional space needs during 
the renovation period. He further noted that additional space would 
be required to meet future expansion needs as well as to provide 
add itional parking facilities for Board employees. Mr. Melnicoff 
stated that the Board had been offered property at 2101 and 2103 E 
Street, and he recommended that the staff be authorized to proceed 
with negotiations looking toward the possible acquisition of those 
properties and others in the immediate vicinity. 
After discussion, the Board approved Mr. Melnicoff's recom-
mendation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

h- • J 
; 
m* w 
w r j - i m i f ? ^riK* 
y
y
y 
1 
xflwl'iili 
rT^ 
r-f f^rr nrpsyfmtpfm 
' ' 3SST 
Item No. 1 
9/27/73 
immediate release 
October 1, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today announced 
tevisions of its Regulation P to strengthen implementation of the Bank Pro-
Action Act. 
The revisions, effective November 1, 1973, are largely technical 
ancl clarify minimum standards to be met by State member banks regarding 
installation, maintenance and operation of security devices, with the 
aim of discouraging crimes against financial institutions and 
listing the apprehension of perpetrators of such crimes. They include 
a definition of requirements for vaults as distinguished from safes, pro-
tecti0n standards for cash dispensing machines and a clarification of 
th 
e rules that safe deposit boxes be stored in an approved vault or 
safe. 
Under Regulation P, if a bank decides not to install, maintain 
O 
°Perate devices to meet the minimum standards for bank security, as 
in Appendix A of the Regulation, it is required to forward to 
th 
e Reserve Bank in its district a statement of reasons for its decision. 
The revisions are similar to the regulatory change proposed for. 
Cotnnietit by the Federal Reserve, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal 
DePosit i n s u r a n c e Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board last 
^uary, since then, the four regulatory agencies, through the Interagency 

3 7 X 4 
- 2 
-
filiating Committee have considered public comment and have observed 
^onstrations of security devices by industry representatives and the 
Bureau of Investigation. The Interagency Committee has unanimously 
vea the proposed revisions. 
The revised bank security specifications, in the form of Appendix A 
Regulation p> are attached. 
- 0 -

3 7 1 5 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEi-I 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. P] 
PART 216—MINIMUM SECURITY DEVICES AND PROCEDURES FOR 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND STATE MEMBER BANKS 
Appendix A—Minimum Standards for Security Devices 
As part of its responsibilities under the Bank Protection Act 
o f 1968 (82 Stat. 294), the Board of Governors conducts a continuing 
Review 
of the minimum standards for bank security devices. On 
January 3, 1973, the Board of Governors proposed to revise Appendix A, 
Minimum Standards for Security Devices," of Part 216 entitled "Minimum 
Security Devices and Procedures for Federal Reserve Banks and State 
Member Banks." 
The proposed Appendix A clarified standards with which each 
Federal Reserve Bank and each State member bank must comply regarding 
installation, maintenance, and operation of security devices to 
^courage robberies, burglaries, and larcenies and to assist in the 
^entifi c a ti o n and apprehension of persons who commit such acts. Among 
proposed revisions were a definition of vaults aa- distinguished from 
8afes, protection standards for cash dispensing machines and a clarification 
the requirements that safe deposit boxes be stored in an approved 
V a u lt or safe. 

8' 
- 2 -
After consideration of all comments received, the Board has 
decided to adopt the proposal with slight modifications. The sections 
cash dispensing machines, the use of steel liners in vaults, and the 
definition of vaults have been reworded for greater clarity. The other 
revisions proposed in the earlier announcement have been incorporated 
^to the appendix. 
Effective November 1, 1973, the Board has amended Appendix A 
of its Regulation P (12 CFR 216) to read as follows: 

3 7 1 7 
APPENDIX A 
Minimum Standards for Security Devices 
In 
Q order to asssure realization of maximum performance capabilities, all 
security devices utilized by a bank should be regularly inspected, tested, 
serviced by competent persons. Actuating devices for surveillance 
Sterns and robbery alarms should be operable with the least risk of 
Section by unauthorized persons that can b*e practicably achieved. 
(1) Surveillance systems. 
(i) General. Surveillance systems 
8h°uld be: 
(A) equipped with one or more photographic, recording, moni-
or like devices capable of reproducing images of persons in the 
tar&ing office with sufficient clarity to facilitate (through photographs 
aPablG of being enlarged to produce a one-inch vertical head-size of 
^erSons whose images have been reproduced) the identification and 
^Prehension of robbers or other suspicious persons; 
(B) reasonably silent in operation; and 
(C) so designed and constructed that necessary services, 
*Pairs or inspections can readily be made. 
Any r 
camera used in such a system should be capable of taking at least 
Picture every 2 seconds and, if it uses film, should contain enough 
e*Posed film at all times to be capable of operating for not less than 
3 Hiin 
autes, and the film should be at least 16mm. 

-2-
3 7 1 8 
(ii) Installation and operation of surveillance systems 
groviding surveillance of other than walk-up or drive-in teller's 
stations or windows. Surveillance devices for other than x?alk-up or 
drive-in teller's stations or windows should be: 
(A) located so as to reproduce identifiable images of persons 
either leaving the banking office or in a position to transact business 
a t each such station or window; and 
(B) capable of actuation by initiating devices located at each 
filer's station or window. 
(iii) Installation and operation of surveillance systems 
Egovjjing surveillance of walk-up or drive-in teller's stations or windows. 
Surveillance devices for walk-up or drive-in teller's stations or windows 
should be located in such a manner as to reproduce identifiable images of 
Arsons in a-position to .transact business at each such. station or window 
aud areas of such station or window that are vulnerable to robbery or 
Greeny. Such devices should be capable of actuation by one or more 
Vitiating 
devices located within or in close proximity to such station or 
^ndow. Such devices may be omitted in the case of a walk-up or drive-in 
t eUer's station or window in which the teller is effectively protected 
^ a bullet-resistant barrier from persons outside the station or window. 
however. 
if the teller is vulnerable to larceny or robbery by members of 
Public who enter the banking office, the teller should have access to 
a device 
to actuate a surveillance system that covers the area of vulnera-
bility o r t h e e x i t s to the banking office. 

3 7 1 9 
-3-
(2) Robbery and burglary alarm systems. 
(i) Robbery alarm 
Systems. A robbery alarm system should be provided for each banking 
office at which the police ordinarily can arrive within 5 minutes after 
an alarm is actuated; all other banking offices should be provided with 
aPpfopriate devices for promptly notifying the police that a robbery 
h a s occurred or is in progress. Robbery alarm systems should be: 
(A) designed to transmit to the police, either directly or 
tht 
0uSh an intermediary, a signal (not detectable by unauthorized persons) 
S e a t i n g that a crime against the banking office has occurred or is 
in Progress; 
(B) capable of actuation by initiating devices located at 
ton » 
^iler s station or window (except walk-up or drive-in teller's 
o r windows in which the teller is effectively protected by a 
resistant barrier and effectively isolated from persons, other • 
u fellow employees, inside a banking office cf which such station or 
Vj 
n d o* may be a part); 
(C) safeguarded against accidental transmission of an alarm; 
(D) equipped with a visual and audible signal capable of 
ating improper functioning of or tampering with the system; and 
(E) equipped with an independent source of power (such as a 
ot 
•erV) sufficient to assure continuously reliable operation of the system 
a t least 24 hours in the event of failure of the usual source of power. 

. 3 7 2 0 
-4-
Burglary alarm systems. A burglary alarm system should 
Provided for each banking office. Burglary alarm systems should be: 
(A) capable of detecting promptly an attack on the outer door, 
V a H s r floor, or ceiling of each vault, and each safe not stored in a 
Vault, in which currency, negotiable securities, or similar valuables are 
stored when the office is closed, and any attempt to move any such safe; 
(B) designed to transmit to the police, either directly or 
thr 
rough an intermediary, a signal indicating that any such attempt £s 
Progress; and for banking offices at which the police ordinarily cannot 
attlve within 5 minutes after an alarm is actuated, designed to actuate 
* loud sounding bell or other device that is audible inside the banking 
and for a distance of approximately 500 feet outside the banking 
Office; 
(C) safeguarded against accidental transmission of an alarm; 
(D) equipped with a visual and audible signal capable of 
"^client--r 
mating improper functioning of or tampering with the system; and 
(E) equipped with an independent source of power (such as a 
t t e ry) sufficient to assure continuously reliable operation of the 
Syst 
e m for at least 80 hours in the event of failure of the usual source 
Power. 
W 
Walk-up and drive-in teller's stations or windows. 
W 
, 
UP and drive-in teller's stations or windows contracted for after 
a ry 15, 1969, should be constructed in such a manner that tellers 

-5-
3 7 2 1 
effectively protected by bullet-resistant barriers from robbery 
larceny by persons outside such stations or windows. Such barriers 
should be of glass at least 1-3/16 inches in thickness,1/ or of material 
at least equivalent bullet-resistance. Pass-through devices should 
^e so designed and constructed as not to afford a person outside the 
station or window a direct line of fire at a person inside the station. 
W ) Vaults, safes, safe deposit boxes, night depositories, and 
^•omated paying or receiving machines. Vaults, safes (if not to be 
scored in a vault), safe deposit boxes, night depositories, and automated 
Joying or receiving machines, in any of which currency, negotiable 
securities, or similar valuables are to be stored when banking offices 
a t e closed, should meet or exceed the standards expressed in this section. 
(i) Vaults. A vault is defined as a room or compartment that 
is designed for the storage and safekeeping of valuables and which has 
a size and shape which permits entrance and movement within by one or 
persons. Other asset storage units which do not meet this definition 
of 
a vault will be considered as safes. Vaults contracted for after 
Member 1, 1973,1/ should have walls, floor, and ceiling of reinforced 
C° n c r e t e at least 12 inches in thickness.3/ The vault door should be 
c steel at least 3-1/2 inches in thickness, or other drill and 
totCh 
resistant material, and be equipped with a dial combination lock, 
106 lock, and a substantial lockable day-gate. Electrical conduits 
" ( P a — " — 
ootnotes appear at end of Appendix A.) 

-6-
"vvs'y 
O it 
into the vault should not exceed 1-1/2 inches in diameter and should be 
offset within the walls, floor, or ceiling at least once so as not to 
form a direct path of entry. A vault ventilator, if provided, should 
be designed with consideration of safety to life without significant 
Eduction of the strength of the vault wall to burglary attack. Alter-
natively, vaults should be so designed and constructed as to afford at 
least equivalent burglary resistance.4/ 
(ii) Safes. Safes contracted for after February 15, 1969, 
should weigh at least 750 pounds empty, or be securely anchored to the 
Premises where located. The body should consist of steel, at least 
* inch in thickness, either cast or fabricated, with an ultimate tensile 
strength of 50,000 pounds per square inch and be fastened in a manner 
6(lual to a continuous 1/4 inch penetration weld having an ultimate 
tensile strength of 50,000 pounds per square inch. The door should be 
fcade of steel that is at least 1-1/2 inch in thickness, and at least 
Univalent in strength to that specified for the body; and the door 
should be equipped with a combination lock, or time lock, and with a 
^locking device that will effectively lock the door if the combination 
°ck or time lock is punched. One hole not exceeding 1/2 inch diameter 
*** be provided in the body to permit insertion of electrical conductors, 
should be located so as not to permit a direct view of the door or 
*°cking mechanism. Alternatively, safes should be constructed of 
Materials that will afford at least equivalent burglary resistance. 

v> £ vO' 
-7-
(iii) Safe deposit boxes. Safe deposit boxes used to safe-
guard customer valuables should be enclosed in a vault or safe meeting 
at least the above-specified minimum protection standards. 
(iv) Night depositories. Night depositories (excluding envelope 
(It 
Ps not used to receive substantial amounts of currency) contracted 
0 t after February 15, 1969, should consist of a receptacle chest having 
C a s t or welded steel walls, top, and bottom, at least 1 inch in thickness; 
Q steel door at least 1-1/2 inches in thickness, with a combination 
lock* 
and a chute, made of steel that is at least 1 inch in thickness, 
rely bolted or welded to the receptacle and to a depository entrance 
of 
length similar to the chute. Alternatively, night depositories 
^uld be so designed and constructed as to afford at least equivalent 
r8lary resistance.5/ Each depository entrance (other than an envelope 
slot) should be equipped with a lock. Night depositories should be 
PPed with a burglar alarm and be designed to protect against the 
"u 
n8" of a deposit from the deposit receptacle, and to protect 
t the "trapping" of a deposit for extraction. 
(v) Automated paying or receiving machines. Except as herein-
^ 
Provided, cash dispensing machines (automated paying machines), 
U d i n 8 those machines which also accept deposits (automated receiving 
^ 
n e s ) contracted for after November 1, 1973, should weigh at least 
P° U n d s empty, or be securely anchored to the premises where located. 
dis-
pensing machines should contain, among other features, a 

O £ 
-8-
storage chest having cast or welded steel walls, top, and bottom, at 
least one inch in thickness, with a tensile strength of at least 
^0,000 pounds per square inch. Any doors should be constructed of 
steel at least equivalent in strength to the storage chest and be 
Quipped with a combination lock and with a relocking device that will 
effectively lock the door if the combination lock is punched. The 
housing covering the cash dispensing opening in the storage chest and the 
housing covering the mechanism for removing the cash from the storage 
chest, should be so designed as to provide burglary resistance at least 
bivalent to the storage chest and should also be designed to protect 
against the "fishing" of cash from the storage chest. The cash dispensing 
c°ntrol and delivering mechanism (and, when applicable, cash deposit 
receipt mechanism) should be protected by steel, at least 1/2 inch in 
Sickness, securely attached to the storage chest. A cash dispensing 
Machine which also receives deposits should have a receptacle chest having 
same burglary resistant characteristics as that of cash dispensing 
storage chest and should be designed to protect against the fishing and 
trapping q£ deposits. Necessary ventilation for the automated machines 
should be designed so as to avoid significantly reducing the burglary 
distance of the machines. The cash dispensing machine should also be 
Signed so as to be protected against actuation by unauthorized persons, 
should be protected by a burglar alarm, and should be located in a well-
^Ehted area. Alternatively, cash dispensing machines should be so 

O t 
> 
-9-
designed and constructed as to afford at least equivalent burglary 
resistance.6/ A cash dispensing machine which is used inside a bank's 
Premises only during bank business hours, and which is empty of currency 
and coin at all other times, should at least provide safeguards against 
jimmyingunauthorized opening of the storage chest door, and against 
actuation 
by unauthorized persons. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 

o /V->b< 
FOOTNOTES 
1/ It should be emphasized that this thickness is merely bullet-
resistant and not bulletproof. 
2/ Vaults contracted for previous to this date should be constructed 
in conformance with all applicable specifications then in effect. 
3/ The reinforced concrete should have: two grids of u5 (5/8" diameter) 
deformed steel bars located in horizontal and vertical rows in each 
direction to form grids not more than 4 inches on center; or two grids 
expanded steel bank vault mesh placed parallel to the face of the 
balls', weighing at least 6 pounds per square foot to each grid, having 
a diamond pattern nor more than 3" x 8"; or two grids of any other 
fabricated steel placed parallel to the face of the walls, weighing at 
least 6 pounds per square foot to each grid and having an open area not 
exceeding 4 inches on center. Grids are to be located not less than 
6 inches apart and staggered in each direction. The concrete should 
develop an ultimate compression strength of at least 3,000 pounds 
Per square inch. 
4/ Equivalent burglary-resistant materials for vaults do not include the 
use of a steel lining', either inside or outside a vault wall, in lieu of 
the specified reinforcement and thickness of concrete. 
Nonetheless, 
there may be instances, particularly where the construction of a vault 
o f the specified reinforcement and thickness of concrete would require 
Sllbstantial structural modification of an existing building, where 
compliance with the specified standards would be unreasonable in cost. 
those instances, the bank should comply with the procedure set forth 
111 section 216.3(c) of Regulation P. 
y Equivalent burglary-resistant materials for night depositories 
delude the use of one-fourth inch steel plate encased in 6 inches 
°r more of concrete or masonry building wall. 
y Equivalent burglary-resistant materials for cash dispensing machines 
delude the use of 3/8 inch thick nickel stainless steel meeting American 
Society of Testing Materials (ASTM) Designation A 167-70, Type 304, in 
Place of 1 inch thick steel, if other criteria are satisfied. 

3 7 2 7 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
.••'OVGOV'. 
OF T H E 
Itera NO. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
9/27/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
1 w 
A D D R E S S 
n r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
«* 
TCJ T H E 
B O A R D 
• • K r ^ . -
September 27, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Bank of the Commonwealth 
Detroit, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors approves, under the provisions 
of Section 24A of the. Federal Reserve Act, an additional investment 
in bank premises by Bank of Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, of 
an amount not to exceed $221,621 in connection with installation 
of uniform pylon-type signs and attendant directional and informational 
signs. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

3 7 2 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D. H. BALDWIN COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
D. H. Baldwin Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire indirectly 89 per cent or more 
o f the voting shares of North Denver Bank of Denver, Denver, 
Colorado ("Bank"), through the direct acquisition of all of the 
voting shares of Nordenco, Inc., Denver, Colorado ("Nordenco"). 
Nordenco is a one bank holding company owning approximately 
oq 
Per cent of the voting shares of Bank and no other assets 
except a general insurance agency whose business will be dis-
c°ntinued prior to consummation of the proposed acquisition. 
The proposed acquisition of Nordenco is treated herein as the 
Proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity 
0 r interested persons to submit comments and views, has been 
8iven in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for 
^ H n g comments and views has expired, and the Board has 
c°naidered 
the application and all comments received in light 
0 f ^ e factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Item No. 3 
9/27/73 

3 7 * 1 9 
- 2 -
Applicant controls the Central Bank and Trust Company, 
Denver, Colorado ("Central Bank"), whose deposits of $331 million 
represent 5.6 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits held 
by Colorado banks and rank it as the fifth largest banking organi-
sation in the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, 
and reflect acquisitions and formations approved through August 31, 
l9?3.) The acquisition of Bank (deposits of $26 million) would 
increase Applicant's share of State deposits to 6.0 per cent and 
w°uld not alter its rank among banking organizations in Colorado. 
Applicant is a diversified corporation engaged in 
three principal areas of activity: the manufacture and sale 
musical instruments; the manufacture and sale of electronic 
c°mponents, and the provision of financial services. The Board 
has previously reviewed each of Applicant's nonbanking activities 
and> under a Board determination of June 14, 1 9 7 3 , f o u n d that 
of Applicant's activities relating to the musical instruments 
business were commenced prior to June 30, 1968, have been engaged 
i n continuously since that date, and appear to be eligible for 
detention on the basis of grandfather privileges. Applicant 
committed itself to divestiture of its electronic interests 
( n o t related to the music business) with reasonable speed and 
l n any event by December 31, 1980. Certain of Applicant's 

;: . 
3 7 3 0 
-3-
interests in the financial services field are located within the 
Denver Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA) and require, 
in connection with the instant proposal, a further analysis to 
that recently undertaken in the Board's § 4(a)(2) review. These 
interests are, specifically, Applicant's ownership of Empire Savings 
and Loan Association, Denver, Colorado ("Empire"), and National 
Farmers Union Service Corporation ("NFU"), also located in Denver, 
B°th Empire and NFU were acquired after June 30, 1968, and under 
the provisions of § 4 of the Act, Applicant's interests in each 
must be reduced to less than 5 per cent of the outstanding voting 
shares by December 31, 1980, unless the Board approves retention 
o f such interests prior to that date. In its consideration of the 
instant application, the Board reviewed each of Applicant's non-
hanking activities in the Denver SMSA to determine whether acquisi-
tion of Bank would have an anticompetitive or other adverse effect 
°n the operations of those companies, or vice versa. 
Empire, with total assets of $252 million, ranks as 
the fourth largest savings and loan association in the Denver 
hanking market and in Colorado. Empire's headquarters and 8 of 
lts 12 branches are located within the Denver SMSA. In terms of 
time and savings deposits, Empire accounts for approximately 
$170 million, or 5.3 per cent of the total time and savings deposits 
held by all 63 commercial banks and 17 thrift institutions in the 
Market. Combined with Central Bank's time and savings deposits 
o f approximately $150 million, Applicant controls 10 per cent of 
a ll such deposits in the market. Acquisition of Bank would add 

-4-
3 7 3 1 . 
$14.9 million, or 0.5 per cent to the total time and savings deposits 
held by Applicant. In the area of mortgage lending, Central Bank and 
Empire combined originated approximately $76 million in mortgages 
2/ 
secured by real estate in 1972, of which $60.6 million-' were loans 
secured by 1-4 family residences. This represented approximately 
8 per cent of all mortgage loan originations on 1-4 family homes in 
the Denver SMSA in 1972. Acquisition of Bank, whose mortgage origi-
nations on 1-4 family homes totalled $30,000 in 1972, or less than 
per cent of all such loans in the Denver market, would not add 
appreciably to Applicant's present market share, nor have an adverse 
interface with the present activities of Applicant. 
NFU is an insurance holding company which owns National 
Farmers Union Life Insurance Company ($29.4 million in assets), 
National Farmers Union Property and Casualty Company ($26.2 million 
in assets), and National Farmers Union Standard Insurance ($2.2 million 
in assets). NFU's life insurance company is one of 462 life insurance 
companies operating in the State of Colorado. It had $24.6 million 
ordinary life insurance (including group life) in force as of 
December 31, 1971, representing but 0.2 per cent of all such insurance 
in force in Colorado. The other two insurance companies owned by NFU 
Total originations of $60.6 million were divided between Central 
nk1 s originations of $21.2 million and those of Empire, which 
amounted to $39.4 million. 

. 3 7 3 2 
-5-
3/ 
both relatively small multiple line insurance companies in the State.— 
Acquisition of Bank would not, in the Board's judgment, have an adverse 
interface with, nor increase to any measurable extent, Applicant's present 
insurance underwriting business in the Denver banking market—^ or in the 
State of Colorado. 
Bank (deposits of $26 million) is the third largest of four 
competing banks in or near its primary service area in the northwest 
section of Denver and is approximately three miles from Central Bank, 
located in downtown Denver. It appears that direct competition between 
Central Bank and Bank is mitigated by industrial congestion between 
the two institutions, although each competes to a limited degree for 
demand and time deposits and for certain loans. Central Bank derives 
aPproximately 12 per cent of its demand deposits and 14.5 per cent 
its savings deposits from Bank's service area. Approximately 3 per 
Cent of Central Bank's installment loans and 1.6 per cent of its 
residential mortgage loans are also derived from Bank's service area. 
However, Bank has not been competing actively for loans or deposits 
fr°m its primary service area due to its limited capital position. 
it appears that whatever significance may be accorded the overlap 
The companies' policies, as those of the National Farmers Union Life 
insurance Company, are concentrated in the States of Montana, Minnesota, 
°rth Dakota, and South Dakota. 
4/ Consisting of Adams, Arapahoe, Denver and Jefferson Counties. 

3 7 3 3 
-6-
between Bank's primary service area and that of Central Bank is attenuated 
by Bank's inability to compete aggressively for loans and deposits as well 
a s the activity of major downtown competitors in the northwest section of 
Denver. Accordingly, it does not appear that Applicant's acquisition 
°f Bank would result in any significant adverse effects on competition. 
A total of 63 banks compete in the Denver banking market, with 
the top three banking organizations controlling 52.5 per cent of total 
market deposits. Six of the ten largest banking organizations 
in the market are multibank holding companies and control over one-third 
°f the area banks and 71 per cent of the area total I.P.C. deposits. 
Applicant's one bank, Central Bank, is the fourth largest banking 
0rganization in this market with 8.5 per cent of area total I.P.C. 
^posits. However, the deposits of the top three banking organizations 
a r e 2.4, 2.1, and 1.5 times the deposit size of Central Bank. It does 
n°t appear that consummation of the proposed acquisition would improve 
Applicant's market position materially nor lead to an undue concentration 
banking resources. Rather, approval of the proposed transaction, and 
e*pansion of Applicant from a one-bank to a multibank holding company, 
should provide a base from which Applicant can grow into a more effective 
c°nipetitor in the Denver banking market and with the major holding companies 
having statewide operations. 
There is no evidence indicating that the major banking needs 
the Denver SMSA are not being met by the existing institutions, 
however, Bank's inadequate capital structure has not permitted it to seek 

-7-
3 7 
new business, tt has not been active in mortgage lending since 1970; 
virtually all of its investments consist of U.S. Treasury or Federal 
agency obligations. Bank received temporary assistance through the 
formation of Nordenco in 1970, when its parent purchased Bank's 
$1.5 million capital debenture. Despite these efforts, Bank's capital 
Position remains inadequate and its financial condition is unsatisfactory. 
Applicant has committed itself to inject $2 million in equity capital 
in Bank which should permit Bank to compete more actively in its service 
atea for deposits and loans. Thus, banking factors, as well as con-
aerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to 
b e served, lend strong weight for approval of the application. In 
Edition, the financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
subsidiaries, including those of Central Bank, appear generally satis-
factory. Applicant proposes to inject an additional $3 million in equity 
CaPital in Central Bank. The Board concludes that the future prospects 
o f all appear favorable. 
In its consideration of this matter, the Board has taken into 
account certain undertakings made by Applicant to assure the Board that 
its operations as a multi-bank holding company, should this application 
approved, will not be misused to the detriment of its competitors, or 
tr» 
customers or suppliers of its nonbanking subsidiaries. These under-
takings are: 
1. Neither Baldwin nor any of its nonbank affiliates 
will borrow money from or sell loans to a Baldwin bank. 

2. No Baldwin bank will lend money to, purchase loans 
from or accept deposits from any person known by the bank 
to be a customer or supplier of Baldwin or of a Baldwin 
nonbank subsidiary. 
3. No Baldwin bank will deny credit to a creditworthy 
piano or organ manufacturer or dealer. 
4. Baldwin and its nonbank subsidiaries will not 
borrow from unaffiliated banks under terms which require 
maintenance by Baldwin banks of unusual balances with 
the lending institution. 
5. Baldwin banks will not, in connection with lending 
transactions, sell credit life, health or accident policies, 
homeowners insurance, automobile insurance, or any other kind 
of insurance policy issued by an insurance company which is 
a Baldwin affiliate. All such policies will be those of 
unaffiliated insurance companies. 
6. Baldwin banks will not sell loans (including but 
not limited to real estate loans) to Baldwin or any of its 
nonbank subsidiaries, except for loans which have been 
criticized by an examining agency. 
7. Baldwin and its subsidiaries will not make any 
charges to the banks of fees for management. 

-9 
3 7 3 6 
8. Fees charged the banks for data processing, audit, 
rent and other payments from the banks to Baldwin and its 
subsidiaries will be at rates customary in arms length 
transactions. 
9. No transaction which would constitute a viola-
tion of section 106 of the Bank Holding Company Amendments 
of 1970 shall be permitted to occur. 
Given the strictures on intercorporate transactions between Applicant's 
hanking and nonbanking subsidiaries which the above-stated undertakings 
impose, and the volume, scope, and nature of Applicant's activities, 
lt appears that acquisition of Bank would not lead to conflicts of 
Merest, unfair competition, unsound banking practices, or an undue 
concentration of resources. Nor would consummation of the proposal 
Cause an adverse interface between the grandfathered activities of 
APPlicant and the Bank to be acquired. The proposal does not, in 
tlle Board's judgment, add significantly to Applicant's share of demand 
dePosits, time and savings deposits, mortgage lending or insurance 
^iness in the Denver banking market or in the State of Colorado. It 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the 
p u b U c interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of all relevant facts contained in the record 
and in Ught of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act, the 
aPPlication is approved for the reasons summarized above. The transaction 

... 3 7 3 7 
-10-
shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,"" effective September 28, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
5./ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell 
sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Voting against this 
trimmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
and Governors Daane, 
action: Governor 

.. 3 7 3 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D. H. BALDWIN COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks and Merger 
with Bank Holding Companies 
D. H. Baldwin Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
acquire direct or indirect ownership of a majority of the voting shares 
o f (1) First National Bank of Grand Junction, Grand Junction, Colorado, 
(2) First National Bank of Glenwood Springs, Glenwood Springs, Colorado, 
(3) First National Bank in Aspen, Aspen, Colorado, and (4) First National 
Bank North, Grand Junction, Colorado. At the same time, Applicant has 
aPplied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(5) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(5)) to merge with First Western Slope Corporatibn, Grand Junction, 
Colorado ("FWS"), a registered bank holding company owning approximately 
5 6 per cent of the outstanding shares of First National Bank of Grand 
Unction, and 20 per cent of the outstanding shares of First National 
Bank in Aspen; and to acquire a majority of the voting shares of First 
^cKinley Corporation, Glenwood Spring3, Colorado ("FMC"), a registered 
bank holding company owning 50.8 per cent of the outstanding shares of 
First National Bank of Glenwood Springs and 20 per cent of the outstand-
ln8 shares of First National Bank in Aspen. The proposed merger with 
and the proposed acquisition of FMC are treated herein as the proposed 
acquisition of shares of First National Bank of Grand Junction, First 
^ U o n a l Bank of Glenwood Springs, and First National Bank in Aspen. 

3 7 3 9 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the applications, affording an opportunity 
for interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired. The Board has considered the applications and all 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and finds that: 
Applicant controls the Central Bank and Trust Company, Denver, 
Colorado ("Central Bank"), and North Denver Bank of Denver, Denver, 
Colorado ("North Denver Bank")r whose combined deposits of $357 million 
represent 6.0 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits held by 
Colorado banks, and rank it as the fifth largest banking organization 
in the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and 
reflect acquisitions and formations approved through August 31, 1973.) 
The acquisition of First National Bank in Grand Junction (deposits of 
million), First National Bank of Glenwood Springs (deposits of 
$33 million), First National Bank in Aspen (deposits of $11 million), 
and First National Bank North (deposits of $1 million) would increase 
Applicant's share of State deposits to 7.47 per cent and its rank among 
banking organizations in Colorado would remain unchanged. 
First National Bank of Grand Junction ("Grand Junction Bank") 
i 
8 the largest of six banks In the Grand Junction banking market (approxi-
mated by Mesa County), and the eighteenth largest banking organization 
I W 0 a r d a p p r o v a l o f D- H- Baldwin Company's acquisition of North Denver 
nk was granted in a companion Order issued this same date. 

3 7 4 0 
-3-
in Colorado. The second largest bank in this market ranks as the 
twentieth largest banking organization in the State and is presently 
under contract agreement for purchase by a Colorado bank holding 
company. The third largest bank in the market is controlled by the 
second largest banking organization in Colorado, while two of the area 
banks are rural banks located 10 and 12 miles, respectively, from Grand 
Junction. Grand Junction Bank is located approximately 250 miles west 
of Denver in the Western Slope area of Colorado, and little competition 
exists between it and Applicant's two Denver-based banks. As of early 
1973, Central Bank derived only 2.5 per cent of its demand deposits and 
less than 1 per cent of its savings deposits from the Grand Junction 
area, while North Denver Bank derived less than $300 in both demand and 
savings deposits from the Grand Junction area. 
Applicant's two nonbanking institutions based in Colorado, 
Empire Savings and Loan Association ("Empire") and National Farmers 
Union Service Corporation ("NFU"), both located in Denver, offer but 
minimal competition to either Grand Junction Bank or to the commercial 
banks in Mesa County. As of February 28, 1973, Empire held only 
$18,000 in mortgage loans from Mesa County and derived only $47,000 
in time deposits from the Grand Junction area. NFU's insurance 
companies held but two loans in Mesa County, totalling $120,000. The 
fioard concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
result in the elimination of substantial existing competition between 

„ 3 7 4 1 
-4-
Applicant's banking and nonbanking financial subsidiaries and Grand 
Junction Bank. It does not appear that Applicant would gain a dominant 
market position through the proposed acquisition, as total deposits 
of the second largest bank in the market are only $2 million less than 
those of Grand Junction Bank. In addition, the annual average growth 
rate of Grand Junction Bank's IPC deposits between 1967 and 1972 was 
less than that of either the second or third largest area banks. 
Given the slow growth of the Grand Junction economy, it appears 
unlikely that Applicant might enter the Grand Junction market de novo or 
through acquisition of a smaller bank. The population per banking office 
for Grand Junction (5,042) is well below the State average (9,046). 
Although Empire can branch anywhere in Colorado,—^ it does not appear 
that consummation of the proposal would result in the elimination of 
substantial future competition between any of Applicant's banking or 
nonbanking subsidiaries and Grand Junction Bank. 
First National Bank of Glenwood Springs ("Glenwood Springs Bank") 
is the larger of two banks in Glenwood Springs and the largest of four 
banks in its service area."" 
The competing bank in Glenwood Springs is 
a subsidiary of another bank holding company and not available for 
acquisition. Acquisition of a bank in Rifle or Carbondale, while within 
y Under the provisions of § 4 of the Act, Applicant's interests in Empire, 
0 8 well as NFU, must be reduced to less than 5 per cent of the outstanding 
^oting shares by December 31, 1980. (See Board determination of June 14, 
- l9?3; 1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin 536.) 
^ Approximated by the City of Glenwood Springs and its environs, and 
deluding the communities of Newcastle, Silt, Rifle, Carbondale and Basalt. 

3 7 4 2 
the service area of Glenwood Springs Bank, would not allow Applicant to 
be an effective competitor in the Glenwood Springs market. Applicant's 
present banking subsidiaries, located approximately 170 miles distant in 
Denver, offer but minimal competition to Glenwood Springs Bank. Central 
Bank derives approximately $80,000 in demand and savings deposits from 
the service area of Glenwood Springs Bank, while Empire derives approxi-
mately $59,000 of savings deposits from this area. It is estimated that 
Glenwood Springs Bank derives approximately 1.2 per cent of its demand 
and savings deposits from the Denver SMSA. The Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition of Glenwood Springs Bank would 
not eliminate any significant direct competition between Applicant's 
hanking or nonbanking subsidiaries and Glenwood Springs Bank. 
Moreover, consummation of the proposal would not eliminate 
any significant direct competition with Grand Junction Bank, located 
9 0 miles distant, or with First National Bank in Aspen, located approxi-
mately 40 miles southeast of Glenwood Springs. These distances effectively 
Preclude the banks in Grand Junction and Aspen as convenient alternatives 
t o residents in Glenwood Springs. Inasmuch as the Western Slope is not 
a single banking market and each of the banks proposed to be acquired 
are located in separate banking markets, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition of Glenwood Springs Bank would 
n°t eliminate significant future competition between Applicant's banking 
°r nonbanking subsidiaries and Glenwood Springs Bank. 

3 7 4 3 
-6-
First National Bank in Aspen ("Aspen Bank") is the smaller 
of two banks in the Aspen banking market (approximated by Pitkin 
County). The larger bank is an affiliate of a banking chain and un-
available for acquisition. Aspen Bank derives approximately 1.7 per 
cent of its demand deposits and 1.8 per cent of its commercial loans 
from the Denver SMSA. Central Bank has a moderate amount of com-
mercial loans from Aspen Bank's service area attributable both to 
its correspondent business and the heavy demand from Denver parties 
for loanable funds to develop the Aspen area. The Board concludes 
that approval of the proposed acquisition would not eliminate any 
significant competition between Aspen Bank and Applicant's banking or 
nonbanking subsidiaries. Similarly, consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would eliminate little significant competition with Glenwood 
Springs Bank inasmuch as Aspen Bank derives only 1 per cent of its 
demand deposits and 0.8 per cent of its savings deposits from the 
service area of Glenwood Springs Bank, while Glenwood Springs Bank 
derives approximately 3.6 per cent of its demand deposits and 5.6 per 
cent of its savings deposits from Aspen Bank's primary service area. 
First National Bank North ("North Bank") is the smallest of six 
banks in the Grand Junction banking market, and derives no deposits or 
loans from the Denver SMSA. A close affiliation exists between North Bank 
and Grand Junction Bank by reason of the two institution's common share-
holders, and it is unlikely that this affiliation would be severed in 
the near future. Moreover, absent its affiliation, the prospects for 
Profitable operations of an independent North Bank appear to be poor. 

-7-
3 7 4 4 
North Bank obtained its charter in May 1972, and did not open for business 
until December of that year. It appears that North Bank's profitability 
and competitive impact in the market area is dependent upon a significant 
amount of support from a larger banking organization. The Board is 
satisfied in the instant application that the charter of North Bank was 
not sought by its organizers for speculative purposes, and that no profit 
will be derived from the owners' investment in North Bank's stock. The 
Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition of North 
Bank will eliminate no significant existing competition nor foreclose 
substantial future competition between any of Applicant's banking or non-
banking subsidiaries and North Bank. The Board further concludes that 
competitive considerations are consistent with approval for each of the 
foregoing applications. 
There is no evidence indicating that the major banking needs 
of 
the areas served by Grand Junction Bank, Glenwood Springs Bank, Aspen 
fiank, or North Bank are not being met by existing institutions serving 
these markets. However, upon consummation of these proposed acquisitions, 
applicant should be able to provide more effective competition to the 
major bank holding companies in the State as it broadens and improves 
its banking services throughout Colorado. Each of the four banks to be 
acqUired are likely to benefit from their ability to draw upon a pool 
of 
qualified manpower for their management. In addition, each may be 
expected to benefit from the provision of internal audits and computerized 
customer information programs. Additions to the capital of Grand Junction 
Bank should insure the continuation of this Bank's competitive posture 

-8-
3 7 4 5 
in the community. In both the Glenwood Springs and Aspen area, Applicant 
may be expected to meet credit demands through participation loans. Appli-
cant proposes to assist both Glenwood Springs Bank and Aspen Bank in the 
provision of trust services which are presently unavailable. Considerations 
relating to banking factors, as well as to the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served, are regarded as being consistent with and lend 
some weight toward approval of the applications. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed transactions would be in the public interest and that 
the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ effective September 28, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
it/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Voting against this action: Governor 
Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

3 7 4 6 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I would deny each of the proposals through which D. H. Baldwin 
Company seeks to acquire five additional banks in Colorado. As a 
manufacturing conglomerate, Applicant is now a one-bank holding company 
possessing substantial financial resources in the Denver SMSA. Approval 
of each of these proposed acquisitions will add unduly to those resources 
in the Denver banking market. As a multibank holding company, its in-
fluence would be extended throughout Colorado as well. 
My views with respect to the continuation of D. H. Baldwin 
Company's nonbanking activities have been previously set forth in 
my dissenting statement to the Board's determination of June 14, 1973, 
wherein all of Applicant's activities relating to the musical instru-
ment business were accorded indefinite grandfather privileges (1973 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 536). I have held all along that the 
opportunities for holding companies to engage in nonbanking activities 
authorized by Congress through the 1970 Amendments to the Act do not 
give Applicant the privilege to expand as a multibank holding company 
and retain, in the process, its sizable nonbanking interests. I would 
require Applicant to decide now whether it wants to be a bank holding 
company--and thus limit itself to activities that the Board has 
determined to be closely related to banking--or whether it wants to be 
In the manufacturing business—and thus cease to be a bank holding company. 

3 7 4 7 
- 2 -
The anticompetitive nature of these proposals can be seen 
most clearly when one notes the presence of Empire Savings and 
Loan Association ("Empire") as an affiliate of Applicant. Owner-
ship of Empire confers upon D. H. Baldwin Company a significant 
advantage not enjoyed by any other Colorado bank holding company. 
It is relatively easy under Colorado law for a savings and loan 
association to establish branches wherever it chooses. However, 
commercial banks are not allowed to establish even a single branch 
in Colorado. Thus, Applicant's continued operation of Empire 
creates and maintains unfair competition for commercial banks 
in the Denver SMSA as well as for other multibank holding companies 
competing on a Statewide basis. Applicant's savings and loan 
affiliate can offer higher rates on savings accounts than commercial 
banks can and thus attract many savers away from its commercial bank 
competitors. Moreover, as a Colorado savings and loan association, 
Empire is permitted to own and acquire raw land and engage in the 
ownership and development of real estate. In fact, Applicant reported 
in its 1972 Annual Report that Empire established ESL Corp., a wholly-
owned service corporation involved in both real estate development 
and equity ownership. This activity is specifically prohibited under 
the Board's Regulation Y for bank holding companies. In my judgment 
(and the Board majority shares this view), real estate development 

3 7 4 8 
-3-
is riot an appropriate activity for banks or bank holding companies. 
Consequently, it should be denied to any subsidiary of a bank 
holding company, irrespective of the fact that such subsidiary 
is a savings and loan association. 
With respect to Applicant's acquisition of North Denver 
Bank, there are additional anticompetitive factors upon which 
the application should be denied. As the majority correctly notes, 
Central Bank derives 12 per cent of its demand deposits and 14.5 per 
cent of its savings deposits from Bank's service area. The balances 
involved are significant when compared to those of Bank in that area. 
In Bank's primary service area, Central Bank derives $7.21 million 
of savings deposits, $4.63 million of certificates of deposit, and 
$6.74 million of demand deposits. Bank, on the other hand, originates 
$8.99 million of savings deposits, $0.99 million of certificates of 
deposit, and $3.9 million of demand deposits over the same area. Thus, 
the competition existing between the two institutions is substantial, 
and I believe the Board should deny the application on this adverse 
factor alone. Moreover, Central Bank has the potential to increase 
this competition in the future. Its size and resource strength give 
it the capability to increase the scope of its operations, while its 
proximity and interest in the area serviced by Bank indicate that--
in the absence of this affiliation--it is a reasonable likelihood 

. 3 7 4 9 
-4-
that such expansion will occur within Bank's service area. The 
Denver banking market is already highly concentrated. I would 
not enhance this concentration through approval of the proposed 
acquisition. 
Nor do I find North Denver Bank to be a failing bank. 
While it may be floundering at the present time, its financial 
difficulties (which are not serious) can best be remedied through 
the bank supervisory process. In my view, it is not proper to 
use the Bank Holding Company Act as a means to acquire banks 
simply because they are in financial distress. Thus, for reasons 
more fully stated in my dissent to the application of State Street 
Boston Financial Corporation to acquire Union National Bank (1973 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 526), I would look to other bank super-
visory agencies to remedy North Denver's problems. If it were 
ultimately necessary to permit its acquisition, it should be done 
by a means which would not have such anticompetitive results. 
Since I believe D. H. Baldwin Company should not be 
allowed to expand from a one-bank to a multibank holding company 
until it has determined the route its further expansion should take--
as a manufacturer or as a bank holding company--I would not permit 
any additional bank acquisitions for this Applicant. Therefore, 
my dissent herein applies equally to the acquisition of the 
additional banks in Colorado for which Board approval was granted 
today. 
September 28, 1973 

_ 3 7 5 0 
Item No. 4 
9/27/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MANUFACTURERS HANOVER CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Citizens 
Mortgage Corporation 
On June 25, 1973, the Board issued an order denying the appli-
cation of Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, Dover, Delaware, to acquire 
substantially all of the assets of Citizens Mortgage Corporation ("Citizens"), 
Southfield, Michigan, pursuant to § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
the Board's Regulation Y. The Board issued a statement, dated 
June 29, 1973, explaining its reasons for the denial of the application 
(1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin 532). 
On August 31, 1973, the Board granted a request for recon-
sideration filed with the Board by the Applicant. The request for recon-
sideration, which was filed pursuant to § 262.3(g)(5) of the Board's 
Rules of Procedures (12 CFR 262.3(f)(6)), was granted because the request 
Presented relevant facts (particularly concerning the public benefits of 
application) that, for good cause shown, were not previously presented 
to the Board and reconsideration appeared otherwise appropriate. 
Citizens engages in the activities of a mortgage banking company 
a n d acts as an investment advisor to a real estate investment trust. Such 
activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related to 
bauking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), (3), and (5)). Notice of the reconsideration, 

- 2 -
.. 3 7 5 1 
affording opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
on the public interest factors, has been duly published (38 Federal Register 
24419). The time for filing comments and views has expired, and none 
have been timely received. 
Applicant controls five banks with aggregate deposits of $10.2 
billion, representing 9.4 per cent of the total deposits of commercial 
banks in New York.!/ Applicant's lead bank, Manufacturers Hanover Trust 
Company ("Bank"), has deposits of $10.1 billion and is the fourth largest 
bank in the United States. Bank services a mortgage loan portfolio and 
originates mortgage loans. Bank, in general, confines its origination 
of mortgage loans on one-to-four family residences to local markets within 
New York State while making loans on income-producing property as well as 
construction loans throughout a large part of the nation. During 1971, 
Bank originated $3.4 million in loans on income-producing property, 
$121 million of construction loans, and $8.2 million of loans on one-to-
four family residences. 
Citizens (1972 year end assets of $111 million) primarily operates 
In the three midwestern states of Michigan, Ohio, and Illinois. Citizens 
had a servicing portfolio of $757 million as of year end 1972 ranking 23rd 
among mortgage bankers on this basis. 
(The Board recognizes that rank based 
on servicing volume is an imperfect measure of the size of the firm. However, 
in many cases it is the only measure available for all mortgage banking 
firms in a market.) In 1971 it originated $126 million of mortgages on one-
to-four family residences with $101 million of this total represented by 
FHA/VA mortgages. During the same period, Citizens also originated $15.7 
Million of mortgages on income-producing property and made construction 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1972. 

3 7 
-3-
loans of $67 million. Since December, 1968, all of Citizens' shares 
have been owned by U. S. Industries, Inc., New York, Mew York, a large 
manufacturing conglomerate. 
The Board was concerned in its denial order with the possi-
bility of the elimination of probable future competition between Applicant 
and Citizens. Applicant has been able to provide information which 
Would indicate that the probability of Citizens expanding into the 
areas where Applicant presently competes are very slender. Basically, 
this information relates to Citizens' posture as a subsidiary of U. S. 
Industries, Inc. This latter company was reluctant to provide 
the capital needed for both product and geographic expansion by Citizens. 
In fact, U. S. Industries, Inc., as part of its general program for 
its subsidiaries, required a positive cash flow to it from Citizens. 
From 1969 to 1972, Citizens provided a net cash flow of about $2 million 
to U. S. Industries, Inc. This inhibited Citizens in expanding its 
operations into new areas.2/ In other words, Citizens was in no better 
Position than an independent mortgage banker, if as good. This financial 
background with regard to Citizens, places its size in proper perspective. 
!7~Though Citizens opened three new offices in-1973, Applicant has 
established, through newly presented information, that these were opened 
in contemplation of Applicant's acquisition of Citizens. 

_ 3 7 5 3 
-4-
This documentation of the relationship between Citizens and 
U. S. Industries has convinced the Board that Citizens could not be 
considered a probable future competitor of Applicant in the latter's 
market areas. Applicant could expand into Citizens' market areas. 
However, there are numerous potential entrants so that the elimination 
of Applicant would not have a substantially adverse effect on future 
competition. 
Another adverse factor related to a covenant not to compete 
given Applicant by U. S. Industries, Inc., which prohibited the latter 
from engaging in a business substantially similar to that conducted 
by Citizens for a period of five years at any location in the United 
States. The Board's majority felt that the geographic scope in this 
covenant was too extensive. Applicant has now completely eliminated 
this covenant not to compete from its agreement with U.. S. Industries 
so that this adverse effect is no longer present. 
As the Board noted in its earlier denial Order, Applicant's 
lead bank and Citizens do not presently compete in the same local 
markets for mortgages on one-to-four family housing. Moreover, though 
both do make construction loans and loans on income-producing property, 
they are very small factors in these regional or national markets 
so there would not be a significant decrease in existing competition 
^ these product lines. 
The Board further notes that Citizens is in need of additional 
capital to continue its present level of operations, and more importantly, 

3 7 5 4 
-5-
to expand those operations both into new product lines and geographic 
areas. Applicant has indicated that it will add approximately $7 
* 
million of equity capital to Citizens which should enable it to greatly 
increase its existing operations. In contemplation of the acquisition 
of Citizens by Applicant, Citizens opened three new offices in the 
fast growing southeastern United States area. Applicant has stated 
that it will continue this type of geographic expansion if it receives 
Board approval to acquire Citizens. Applicant has also indicated 
it will enlarge Citizens' role in the increasingly important field 
of conventional mortgages. Both these types of expansion would be 
in the public interest and constitute positive grounds for approval 
of the application. 
Applicant has additionally indicated that it will lower 
interest fees to mortgagors either through having Citizens warehouse 
mortgages until such time as mortgage rates decline or by charging 
lower servicing fees. This commitment is an additional new factor 
which is in the public interest and weighs in support of approval 
°f the application. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation 
the proposal would result in unfair competition, conflicts of interest, 
unsound banking,practices. The extent of concentration of resources 
^lowing from this case is riot considered undue considering, the public benefits 
Qf the proposal. Applicant has agreed that it will liquidate Citizens Family 
Assurance Company, a wholly-owned reinsurance subsidiary 'tff^Citizens; - upon 
consummation of this transaction. Applicant has further agreed to dispose 

3 7 5 5 
-6-
of an office building in Ohio and certain land in Michigan as soon 
as possible but, in no case, later than two years after consummation 
and has stated it will engage in no land development activities with 
regard to these properties during the period of retention. Applicant 
does not presently engage in acting as an investment advisor to a 
real estate investment trust and its entry into this activity should 
provide benefits by enabling Citizens to expand the activity. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of public 
interest factors that the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved subject 
to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 
225.4(c)) and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder or to prevent evasion thereof. 
The transaction shall be consummated not later than three 
months after the effective date of this Order unless such period is 

.. 3 7 5 6 
-7-
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,3/ effective September 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor 
Brimmer. Governor Bucher plans to issue a concurring statement at a 
future date. 

3 7 5 7 
Item No. 5 
9/27/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MELLON NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Carruth Mortgage Company 
Mellon National Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
shares of Carruth Mortgage Corporation, New Orleans, Louisiana ("Carruth"), 
a company that engages in the activity of general mortgage banking 
and acts as an insurance agent with respect to insurance directly 
related to the extension of credit, including specifically mortgage 
redemption insurance, credit accident and health insurance, and credit 
life insurance. Such activities have been determined by the Board to be 
closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (9)(ii)(a)). 
In addition to the activities enumerated above, Carruth is 
Presently engaged in the sale of hazard and flood insurance on collateral 
securing extensions of credit. Although originally part of the instant 
application, the request to continue the sale of hazard and flood insur-
ance was withdrawn by Applicant after an objection to that portion of 
nhe Application was filed by a third party and Carruth will discontinue 
filing this type of insurance upon consummation of the transaction. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Bersons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 

- 2 -
. 3 7 5 8 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 13062). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant's only banking subsidiary, Mellon Bank, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, is the largest bank in the Pittsburgh banking market with 
deposits of $3.65 billion. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972.) 
Applicant also engages in mortgage banking activities through two sub-
sidiaries: Mellon National Mortgage Company of Colorado (doing business 
as Morrison and Morrison) with an office in Denver, Colorado, servicing 
a mortgage portfolio of $82 million, and Mellon National Mortgage 
Company of Ohio (formerly Jay F. Zook, Inc.) with offices in Ohio and 
Pittsburgh servicing a mortgage portfolio of $496 million. Applicant's 
subsidiaries presently rank 44th in the nation in mortgage servicing 
and upon acquisition of Carruth would rank as 27th. 
Carruth, with assets of $10.7 million and a mortgage portfolio 
of $161 million, operates five offices in Hew Orleans and one in Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana, and derives 80 per cent of its business from these 
two markets. Carruth engages in originating and servicing loans on single 
family residences and to a lesser extent on apartments and commercial 
Property. 
Applicant's two mortgage banking subsidiaries operate from 
offices in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Colorado; neither of these firms 
drives any business from the New Orleans or Baton Rouge markets, nor 
does Mellon Bank hold any mortgage loans from these markets. No present 

3 7 5 9 
-3-
competition would be eliminated by consummation of the proposed acquisition. 
Moreover, due to the fact that there are over 80 competitors in the 
relevant market and that the market is over 750 miles from its present 
subsidiaries, it is unlikely that Applicant would enter the New Orleans 
and Baton Rouge markets de novo. Consummation of this proposal will not 
eliminate any probable future competition. Accordingly, the Board con-
cludes that approval of the application, insofar as related to Carruth's 
mortgage banking activities, would not have any adverse effect on 
competition. 
Carruth also sells credit life, credit accident and health 
and mortgage redemption insurance. Due to the limited nature of its 
insurance activities, it does not appear that Applicant's acquisition 
of Carruth's insurance activities would have any significant effect on 
existing or future competition. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Carruth are generally satisfactory 
and consistent with approval of the application. It is anticipated that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition will enable Carruth to provide 
an increased quantity of mortgage funds in those areas where it presently 
operates. It will be able to participate in additional construction 
and development loans and increase the size of its loans for these projects. 
These advantages will enable Carruth to compete more efficiently in the 
highly competitive New Orleans market. There is no evidence in the 

3 7 GO 
-4-
record indicating that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
result in undue concentration, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, 
unfair banking practices, or other adverse effects. 
Under § 4(a)(2) of the Act, Applicant has until November, 1974, 
two years from the date of becoming a bank holding company, to obtain 
Board approval to retain Mellon National Mortgage Company of Ohio. Applicant 
has indicated its willingness to separately maintain the assets of 
Carruth in order to facilitate the Board's future examination and 
evaluation of the application to retain that subsidiary. Accordingly, 
approval of this acquisition is conditioned on the segregation of the 
assets of Carruth and Mellon National Mortgage Company of Ohio. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved subject to 
the condition that Carruth's assets be maintained separate and apart 
from those of Mellon National Mortgage Corporation of Ohio. This deter-
mination is additionally subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its sub-
sidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the pro-
visions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. The transaction shall 

-5-
3 7 6 1 
be consummated not later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to authority 
delegated herewith. 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective September 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg. 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Brimmer and Sheehan. Governor Bucher plans to issue a concurring 
statement at a future date. 

3 7 6 2 
Item No. § 
9/27/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
American National Holding Company 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
American National Holding Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under Section 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of The American National Bank in Western 
Michigan, Allegan, Michigan, a proposed new bank ("BANK"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
with Section 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views 
has expired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in Section 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 6 banks, with total deposits of 
approximately $212.9 million representing less than 1 per cent of the 
total commercial deposit in Michigan. 
(All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1972). The acquisition of Bank will not affect Applicant's 
ranking as the sixteenth largest banking organization in the State. 
Since Bank is a proposed new bank, consummation of the acquisition 
would neither eliminate existing competition nor increase immediately 
Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits either in Michigan or in 
the Allegan market. 

3 7 G 3 
-2-
Bank will be located in downtown Allegan, Michigan, a town of 
4,516 people according to the latest Census. Currently, there is only 
one bank in downtown Allegan and it is controlled by a competitor, 
The First National Bank & Trust Company of Michigan, Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
The closest bank to Allegan is a branch of Applicant's subsidiary, 
American National Bank & Trust Company of Michigan, located in West 
Allegan, 4 miles from downtown Allegan. Applicant will seek permission 
to spin off the branch at West Allegan which will be acquired by Bank and 
operated as its branch. Thus, the convenience and needs of those 
presently using the West Allegan branch will continue to be served as 
well as those residents who need or desire downtown banking facilities. 
Bank is approximately 12.5 miles from the next closest office of a 
subsidiary of Applicant in Plainwell, from which it is separated by 4 
banking offices of a competitor bank. Establishment of Bank should not 
adversely affect present or potential competition. 
The financial condition, management, and future earnings 
prospects of both Bank and Applicant are satisfactory and are consistent 
with approval. 
There is no evidence that the convenience and needs of the 
Allegan market are not being adequately met. However, establishment of 
another bank in downtown Allegan will offer an alternative to those 
residents who prefer to do their banking downtoCn. Thus., the factors 
relating to convenience and needs of the community to be served are consistent 

3 7 6 4 
-3-
with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the acquisition of the 
shares of the proposed bank is in the public interest and-that the 
application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after that date and (c) 
The American National Bank in Western Michigan, Allegan, Michigan, 
shall be opened for business not later than six months after the 
effective date of this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) 
may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective September 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
17 Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors 
Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 

. A y 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
3 7 t i 5 
Item' No. 7 
9/27/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 28, 1973 
Mr. Louis A. Cox 
General Counsel 
United States Postal Service 
Washington, D. C. 
20260 
Dear Mr. Cox: 
The Board of Governors of the- Federal Reserve System desires 
to comment as set forth herein on the proposed new regulation of the 
United States Postal Service (proposed new Subsection E, Chapter I, Title 
39 Code of Federal Regulations, as published in 38 Federal Register 17512-
17516) , and appreciates your courtesy in extending the time limit for 
submission of its comments. The proposed regulation results from the 
Postal Service's reevaluation of the Private Express Statutes and its con-
clusion that certain "administrative practices" should be improved. 
These comments are submitted with a view toward the improve-
ment of the nation's payments mechanism for money transfers and the flow 
of financial information and documents among and .between financial 
institutions in the United States. The Board regards an efficient pay-
ments mechanism for checks and other commercial instruments and an un-
fettered flow of financial information as necessary components of a 
stable economy and an effective monetary policy. 
1. Definition of "check" and other financial instruments as "letters" 
The proposed regulations establish a broad definition of 
'.'letter" intended to include, among other items, checks and other financial 
instruments when shipped between financial institutions. Although defined 
as "letters", the proposed regulation, through the grant of suspen-
sions, continues to treat checks and other financial instruments as 
outside the scope of the restrictions which otherwise would require 
imposition of certain penalties as provided in § 310.2(a) of the 
proposed regulation. 
The Board does not object to the classification 
of checks and other financial instruments as "letters", provided it is 
the intent of the Postal Service "to continue pre-existing practices" 
and continue the exception granted these items. 

1 
3 7 G G 
I 
Mr. Louis A. Cox 
-2- 
- 
j 
The Board would view with great concern, however, any changes 
in the Postal Service's regulations which would result in the elimination 
of any of the proposed suspensions for checks and other financial 
instruments. Under present practice 55-60 per cent of the checks 
going through Federal Reserve clearings are being handled on an over-
night basis through courier services which deliver items to Federal 
Reserve offices between 8 p.m. and midnight and deliver cash letters 
to banks the following day between 8 a.m. and noon. Such changes could 
impose severe technical and financial burdens on the payments mechanism, 
and could render the existing system substantially inoperable and 
inhibit development of more efficient methods of transfer of financial 
instruments and information*: In the year 1970, more than 21 billion 
checks were written, and it is projected that by 1975, this figure will 
have increased to more than 30 billion. To assure its ability to pro-
cess these items, the Board would favor a regulatory scheme that expressly 
provides continued exempt or suspended status to checks and other financial 
instruments. 
2. Interoffice communications suspension 
Section 320.2(d) of the proposed regulation grants suspen-
sions to interoffice communications between offices and branches 
of the same organization when transmission must be and is completed 
within 12 hours or by not later than the opening of the addressee's 
business on his next working day. Because the proposal does not 
define "organization" for the purpose of applying, the stated suspen-
sion, the regulation's effect on the Board and the Federal Reserve 
System is unclear. 
The Board would view as consistent with the public interest 
the suspension of any penalty on the interchange of financially-
related communications sent between and among Federal Reserve Banks, 
their facilities, and member banks. Currently, the requirement to 
affix postage to each piece of financially-related material results 
in substantial delays in the dissemination of this information, and 
difficulties presently experienced within the System would be signi-
ficantly eliminated by recognition of the Federal Rescue S y s t e m ^ 
an institutional unit for the purposes of defining an organization 
under this section. The Board believes that the efficient flow of 
information within the Federal Reserve System is vital to the economic 
well-being of the country, and that the failure to apply suspension 
status to these interchanges of information would not be consistent 
with these objectives. 

Mr. Louis A. Cox 
-3- - j 
3 7 6 7 
The Board believes that the requirement that transmissions be 
completed within 12 hours or not later than the opening of the addressee's 
business on his next work day, should be modified to continue to apply 
suspended status to transmissions delayed beyond* the stated time period 
due to unavoidable conditions such as emergency, accident, or inclement 
weather. 
3. Suspension of certain financial instruments and facilities 
Section 320.2(d) provides suspension status to "checks and 
other financial instruments, such as stock certificates, promissory 
notes, bonds and other negotiable securities, when shipped between 
financial institutions or as bulk to financial institutions." 
The Board believes that the language of this suspension 
classification should be modified in the following respects: . 
a. Electronic transfer of items— 
Changes under development in the payments mechanism make 
it necessary that the definition of "checks" in the proposed suspension 
provisions encompass such items as punch cards, print-outs and magnetic 
tapes, which it is contemplated will eventually replace checks. 
b. Reserve Bank facilities— 
Federal Reserve Regional Check Processing Centers have 
been established throughout the United States to aid in the development 
of an improved payments mechanism, and will serve a central role in the 
electronic payments mechanism. As the shipments of checks and payments-
related data to and from these centers increase, it is imperative that 
the suspension provisions of the proposed regulation be applied to these 
facilities. 
c. Affiliates of financial institutions— 
In recent years, many financial institutions have established 
' affiliated service corporations whose responsibilities include check 
process ing activities. The term "financial institution" should also 
include these "affiliates" of a financial institution in order to place 
all institutions on an equal footing. 

Mr. Louis A. Cox 
-4-
d. Checks returned for nonpayment (return items)— 
I 
The suspension provisions of the proposed regulations 
should also be understood to accord suspension status to return 
items, whether or not bearing notations as to the reason for non-
payment. Such treatment would encourage the prompt sending of items, 
accelerate return of the items, and thus promote an efficient payments 
mechanism. 
The following suggested modification of § 320.2(d)(3) would 
incorporate the above recommendations:_ 
"(3) Financial instruments, including checks, return 
.items, (whether or not bearing notations), stock 
certificates, promissory notes, bonds and other 
negotiable securities, when shipped between financial 
institutions, their offices, affiliates and facilities, 
or in bulk to financial institutions, their offices, 
affiliates, and facilities. This suspension also 
applies to instruments which call for the crediting 
or debiting of accounts maintained at financial 
institutions, or their offices, affiliates, or 
facilities which are ready for immediate electro-
mechanical or electronic data processing or automatic 
intermediate conversion into such form or are the 
direct output of such data processing, which include 
information such as the date, amount, accounts, and 
persons for whose benefits and reasons accounts are 
to be debited and credited, and which must be acted 
upon promptly by reason of the rules under which the 
financial institution operates or the nature of the 
. transaction." 
4. Other Comments 
— 
The Board is concerned that the "file exemption" has been 
eliminated from the proposed regulation. The elimination of the 
exemption will discourage the development of duplicate record centers 
both by Reserve Banks and by member banks. 
In view of the fact that 
original financial data can be destroyed through inadvertance, accident 
fire, sabotage, vandalism, etc., it is necessary to protect financial 

Mr. Louis A. Cox 
-5-
data through a duplicate filing system. Without such a 
L 
j. „ r , a t l » , „ 
^LSSL* 
,ue;« "l8lt 
but as to which no present use is intended". 
matter J ^ f ' B o a r d appreciates the opportunity to comment on this 
b T 
te 
t
 
U " h e ; information is desired, the Board would 
Staff W ^ f h Provide such information. 
In addition, the Board's 
staff will be available to discuss any aspects of this matter with 
representatives of the Postal Service. 
matter with 
Very "truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
x 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3 7 7 0 
Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/27/73 
STANDARD AND CHARTERED BANKING GROUP LIMITED 
Order Approving Acquisition of Mocatta Metals, Inc. 
Standard and Chartered Banking Group Limited, London, England, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire 30 per cent 
of the voting shares of Mocatta Metals, Inc., New York, New York, 
a corporation to be formed under the laws of Delaware ("Mocatta"), 
which would be a successor corporation to Mocatta Metals Corporation 
of New York and thereby to indirectly acquire voting shares of the 
following corporations, which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mocatta 
Metals Corporation of New York: Iron Mountain Depository Corporation, 
New York, New York; Mocatta Commodities Corporation, New York, New 
York; Brody, White & Company, New York, New York; Mocatta Clearing 
Corporation, New York, New York; and I.M.D. Chicago, Inc., Chicago, 
Illinois. Mocatta would directly, and indirectly through its wholly-
owned subsidiaries, engage in the activities of buying and selling gold 
and silver bullion and silver coin, dealing in exchange and silver futures, 
and arbitraging gold and silver in markets throughout the world, and 
also in such incidental activities as are necessary to carry on the 
foregoing activities. Such activities have not previously been determined 
by the Board to be closely related to banking or managing or controlling 
banks as to be a proper incident thereto. 

. 3 7 7 1 
-2~ 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views on whether such activities are 
closely related to banking, as well as the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 FR 26160). The time for filing comments and 
views has expired and none has been timely received. 
Applicant,!.^ which is organized under the laws of England 
and has its head office in London, England, owns 100 per cent of the 
outstanding voting stock of The Chartered Bank, an international banking 
organization with its head office in London, England. The Chartered 
Eank owns 100 per cent of the outstanding voting stock of The Chartered 
Bank of London, San Francisco, California, which has total deposits in 
the United States of approximately $51 million.2J 
Both Applicant and 
The Chartered Bank became bank holding companies as a result of the 1970 
Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 
The present proposal is part of a transaction involving 
Applicant's purchase from Hambros Bank, Ltd., London, England of Mocatta 
& Goldsmid Ltd., one of London's five major bullion dealers (all five major 
British gold dealers are subsidiaries of British banks). In this connection, 
Applicant proposes to purchase 30 per cent of Mocatta. Mocatta, with 
its head office to be located in New York City, will engage in the 
activities of buying and selling gold and silver bullion and silver coin, 
1/ As of December 31, 1972, Applicant possessed total assets of 
approximately $7 billion. 
2/ As of June 30, 1973. 

8 7 7 2 
-3-
dealing in exchange and silver futures and arbitraging gold and silver 
in markets throughout the world.!/ Hocatta Metals Corporation of New 
York, the corporation to which Mocatta will succeed, had gross revenues 
of $208 million for the year ending April 30, 1972. As adjuncts to 
its bullion activities, Mocatta will wholly own five subsidiaries which 
will account for a negligible amount of Hocatta's revenues. These 
corporations essentially will be used either to provide vault and handling 
services necessarily incidental to Mocattafs bullion activities or to 
hold membership for Mocatta on commodity exchanges where bullion and 
coin are traded. 
National banks and Edge Act corporations, which are organized 
pursuant to section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act, each have the express 
statutory power to purchase and sell bullion, coin and exchange. The 
seven major dealers in gold and silver bullion in New York include two 
national banks*/ and one State member bank.I/ The United States Treasury 
licenses United States dealers to buy gold for the purpose of selling 
it to United States users. The dealers rely almost exclusively on foreign 
gold for their supplies since the major U. S. producer sells directly 
to users. Many of the gold bullion dealers are also engaged in buying 
and selling silver bullion or coin and making a market in silver futures. 
The bullion market in New York is closely tied to the London and Zurich 
MocaTta^resently sells options contracts on futures but Applicant 
has committed itself to cease this activity upon consummation of the 
proposal. 
. _ 
if Republic National Bank of New York and Rhode Island Hospital Trust 
National Bank. 
1/ 
State Street Bank of Boston. 

o / * o 
-4-
markets. The activities of Mocatta would complement the international 
banking operations of Applicant, including especially its substantial 
banking operations in the gold-producing countries of Africa. Based 
on the facts of record, the Board finds that buying and selling gold 
and silver bullion and silver coin, dealing in exchange and silver 
futures and arbitraging gold and silver in markets throughout the world 
are activities closely related to banking or managing or controlling 
banks.§J 
Applicant is not presently engaged in these activities in the 
New York market so that consummation of the proposal would eliminate 
no existing competition. While it is possible that Applicant could 
enter the field de novo, there are a considerable number of large, New 
York City based, banks and Edge Corporations which could be considered 
to be potential entrants and consummation of the proposal would have 
no adverse effects on potential competition. There is no evidence in 
the record indicating that consummation of the proposed transaction 
would result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, 
conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 
As previously indicated, Mocatta is to be formed under the laws 
of Delaware as a successor to Mocatta Metals Corporation of New York, 
T / Mocatta also deals in platinum and palladium and engages in a limited 
amount of trading in other commodities. Such activities are not authorized 
for national banks and the Board finds that they are not closely related 
to banking. Applicant is required to terminate these activities within 
six months after consummation of the proposal. 

3 7 7 4 
-5-
which historically has had a strong and close affiliation with Mocatta 
& Goldsmid Ltd., London, England, one of the five principal bullion 
dealers in England. Since Applicant intends to acquire a controlling 
interest in Mocatta & Goldsmid in a separate transaction not requiring 
prior Board approval, Applicant has stated that it will continue this 
strong working association between Mocatta and Mocatta & Goldsmid. 
Specifically, Applicant has stated that it will cause Mocatta & Goldsmid 
to make available to Mocatta facilities in bullion of up to $50 million 
in London, to provide Mocatta with an office contiguous to Mocatta & 
Goldsmid's trading room in London, and to provide Mocatta with vault, 
fixing facilities, administrative assistance, management information 
services, computer services and other technical assistance which will 
make Mocatta a more efficient competitor better able to serve U. S. 
purchasers and sellers of gold and silver bullion in the New York market. 
In addition, this association of Mocatta with a strong financial affiliate, 
Mocatta & Goldsmid, adds to the stability of Mocatta in counterpart 
trading, which is of public benefit in a volatile market, and prevents 
any possible deterioration of Mocatta's financial position relative to 
bullion dealers abroad. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. 

Accordingly, the application is hereby approved, subject to 
the condition that 
Mocatta terminate its activities in dealing in 
platinum and palladium and other commodities within six months after 
consummation of the proposal. This determination is subject to the 
Board's authority to require reports by and make examinations of holding 
companies and their subsidiaries and to require such modification or 
termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its sub-
sidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors JJ effective September 27, 
1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
77 Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
and Governor Daane. 

3 7 7 6 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 9 
9/27/73 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 27, 1973 
Mr. George H. Clay 
President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
The Board of Governors took action today to disapprove 
the pending increase in your Bank's discount rate from 7-1/2 to 
8 per cent which your board of directors voted to establish at their 
meeting on September 20. In reaching this decision, Board members 
noted that a number of arguments could be made in favor of an in-
crease in the discount rate, including its impact in helping to mod-
erate inflationary expectations and in confirming a restrictive 
monetary policy stance. A majority of the Board concluded, 
however, that the proposed increase would not be timely in light 
of the indications of much more moderate growth in the monetary 
aggregates and the sharp declines recently in short-term market 
interest rates. 
While reaching a decision that differs from that of your 
directors, the Board appreciates having had the benefit of their 
considered judgment and has asked me to convey their appreciation. 
Yours sincerely 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 

1 
T3vf>Qir!ent*.s 
Subjcct 
tffice Correspondence 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
BOARD • F G•VERN•RS 
or THE 
, O f / / 
Item No. 10 
9/27/73 
D atc_S.cpi.cmbc r_ 2 7., ...19 7. 
Board Discount Rate Action 
on September 27, 197 3 
S T R I C T L» Y C O N F I_D E N J J AJL 
There follows the substance of a letter sent to two 
Federal Reserve Banks whose directors voted to establish a 
discount rate of 8 per cent. 
In reaching their decision, Board 
members noted that a number of arguments 
could be made in favor of an increase in the 
discount rate, including its impact in helping 
to moderate inflationary expectations and in 
confirming a restrictive monetary policy stance. 
A majority of the Board concluded, however, 
that the proposed increase would not be timely 
in light of the indications of much more moderate 
growth in the monetary aggregates and the sharp 
declines recently in short-term market interest 
rates. 
