MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 31, 1973 

' >< i* > "J 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 31, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 4:10 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counse 1 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
BankAmerica Corporation. 
The Board met today to discuss a 
wire received from BankAmerica Corporation, San Francisco, California 
requesting the Board to reconsider its decision of July 27, 1973, 
denying the application of BankAmerica Corporation to acquire GAC 
Finance, Inc., Allentown, Pennsylvania. 

7/31/73 
-2-
After discussion the Board agreed that it would be prepared 
to reconsider its decision of July 27, 1973, upon receipt of a revised 
plan of divestiture from BankAmerica Corporation. 
Attached as Item No. 1 
is a copy of the press release issued by the Board with respect to this 
matter. 
All staff members except Messrs. Melnicoff and Feldberg then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Richmond Presidency. 
On July 27, 1973, the Board approved the 
appointment of Robert P. Black as President of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond, subject to discussion by Chairman Burns and Governor 
Sheenan with Mr. Black concerning the Richmond Reserve Bank's operations 
and staffing. 
At today's meeting Chairman Burns indicated that such 
a discussion had been held, the salient points of which he described. 
After comments by other members of the Board, it was understood 
that Chairman Lawson of the Richmond Bank would be notified that the 
Board had approved the appointment of Mr. Black as President of the 
Bank. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

' • f^AL Rfc* . • 
Item No. 1 
7/31/73 
For immediate release 
July 31, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today received 
the following communication from BankAmerica Corporation, San Francisco, 
California: 
"BankAmerica Corporation hereby respectfully requests 
the Board of Governors to reconsider their decision of July 
27, 1973 denying BankAmerica Corporation's application for 
approval of the acquisition of GAC Finance, Inc. 
"In support of its request for reconsideration, 
BankAmerica will submit a plan of proposed divestiture 
covering substantial portions of the assets and business 
of GAC Finance, Inc. Such a plan will be submitted to the 
Board-before the end of business on Friday, August Third." 
The Board's response is as follows: 
"Board is prepared to reconsider its decision upon 
receipt of plan of proposed divestiture." 
