MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 16, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 16, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Staff presented a review of domestic and international devel-
°Pments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings of 
Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical materials 
1/ 
^ 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
— 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1 ~1253 
4/16/73 
-2-
prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, along 
with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed pertinent legislative developments. 
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting at this point, as 
did members of the staff who had attended only for purposes of the 
economic review, and the following entered: 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. Pursuant to the recommendation in a 
Memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation of April 11, 
73, the Board unanimously approved a letter to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission relating to the treatment under Regulation T of 
simultaneous long and short positions in a margin account with respect 
t o options. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. It was 
understood that the substance of the letter would be published in the 
federal Register. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Empire 
State Corporation, Buffalo, New York, for permission for its subsidiary, 
First Empire Bank-New York, New York, New York, to acquire shares of 
First Empire Bank International N.V. , Netherlands Antilles. A copy of 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 

4 o r o 
4/16/73 
-3-
The Board approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, 
the application of LaSalle National Bank, Chicago, Illinois, to establish 
a shell branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, to replace 
its present shell branch in Nassau, Bahamas. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, 
the application of Crocker National Bank, San Francisco, California, to 
establish a shell branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
With the understanding that certain changes would be made in a 
draft that had been distributed, the Board unanimously approved a 
letter to United Jersey Banks, Ilackensack, New Jersey, granting an 
extension of time to comply with the Board's order of February 17, 1972, 
insofar as it relates to the elimination of home office protection held 
by The City National Bank of Millville, Millville, New Jersey. A copy 
the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Armored car and courier services. The Board had received a 
letter from counsel for Purolater Courier Corp. (formerly American 
Courier Corporation), Denver, Colorado, protesting action by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond in soliciting and receiving bids from bank 
h°lding company courier subsidiaries for proposed courier services for 
the Richmond Bank. Since the Board had not yet determined whether perfor-
mance of courier services was a permissible activity for bank holding 

4/16/73 
-4-
companies, there was a question as to whether the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond should entertain bids from, or contract for services 
with, courier subsidiaries of bank holding companies. 
In a memorandum dated April 13, 19 73, Mr. O'Connell recommended 
that the Richmond Reserve Bank be allowed to entertain all qualified 
ki-ds, including those of courier subsidiaries of bank holding companies, 
.C 
o r the Bank's courier service contract. 
After discussion the Board approved Mr. O'Connell's recommen-
dation, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the 
letter sent to counsel for Purolator Courier Corp. is attached as 
I t e m j ^ j ^ 
Chase Manhattan Bank. By letter dated April 18, 1972, the 
B°ard approved the retention by Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
/•i 
°rPoration, a subsidiary of The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Associ-
ati°n), New York, New York, of the shares of Standard and Chartered 
banking Group Ltd., London, England, provided that Standard and 
Chartered's subsidiary, The Chartered Bank Limited, London, England, 
di 
ested its shares of Chartered Bank of London, San Francisco, 
California, on or before April 18, 1973. Chase Manhattan Overseas 
anking Corporation's shares in Standard and Chartered were subsequently 
ransferred to The Chase Manhattan Bank, as a direct investment in a 
ureign bank under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act. 

•s 
1 J J 5 4 
4/16/73 
-5-
In March 1973, Chase Manhattan Bank requested that the Board 
extend until April 18, 19 74, the time for compliance with the Board's 
letter of April 18, 1972. In April 1973, Chase Manhattan requested 
a Board ruling that a proposal to shift the shares of Chartered Bank 
°f London to a pension trust of one of the banks in the Standard and 
Chartered Group would constitute compliance with the Board's letter 
o f April 18, 1972. Further, Chartered Bank of London had requested a 
Board ruling that it was doing no business in the United States except 
such as was incidental to Standard and Chartered's international or 
foreign business and that Chase Manhattan should therefore be permitted 
t o continue to hold its shares of Standard and Chartered. 
In a memorandum dated April 13, 1973, the Legal Division 
recommended that the Board (1) disapprove Chase Manhattan's request 
regarding the pension trust; (2) disapprove Chartered Bank of London's 
request for a ruling regarding its business in the United States; and 
(3) order Chase Manhattan to divest its shares of Standard and Chartered 
°n or before April 18, 1974, and to make quarterly reports to the 
Board regarding the progress in locating a buyer or buyers for those 
shares. 
During discussion support was indicated for staff recommen-
dations (1) and (2). With respect to recommendation (3), it was 
believed that Chase Manhattan should be ordered to divest its shares 
o f Standard and Chartered before April 18, 1974, unless within a 

JLiOi/t 
4/16/73 
-6-
Period of 90 days Chase Manhattan submitted, and the Board found 
satisfactory, an alternative means of compliance with the conditions 
attached to the Board's earlier consents. 
With the understanding that proposal (3) would be modified as 
agreed upon today, the Board unanimously approved the staff recommen-
dations. Copies of the letters sent to Chase Manhattan Bank and to 
counsel for Standard and Chartered pursuant to this action are attached 
a S 
7 and 8. 
BankAmerica Corporation. In a memorandum dated March 30, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the 
aPplication of BankAmerica Corporation, San Francisco, California, 
(1) to acquire shares of a Netherlands company that would engage in 
underwriting and reinsuring credit life insurance abroad; and (2) for 
Permission for the Netherlands company to establish a subsidiary in 
Manama. The Netherlands company would be established as a joint 
Venture by BankAmerica and Occidental Life Insurance Company of 
california. In recommending denial, the staff observed that the proposed 
J°int venture between these two major financial institutions could 
Promote indirectly the concentration of resources and the blunting of 
n°rmal competitive factors domestically that the Bank Holding Company 
Act 
sought to prohibit. Further, the staff noted that there were no 
significant public benefits that would accrue from this particular 
Proposal. 

125G 
4/16/73 
-7-
During the discussion, agreement was expressed with respect 
to the staff recommendation. However, it was suggested that a proposal 
o f this nature might be beneficial' if BankAmerica could locate an 
acceptable company other than Occidental to join it in the venture. 
A majority of the Board believed that rather than denying the appli-
cation at the present time, staff should inform BankAmerica of the 
board's views regarding this matter. Governors Robertson and Brimmer, 
however, believed that the present application should be denied today. 
The Board thereupon agreed, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissenting, that staff would inform BankAmerica of the Board's views 
and report to the Board with respect to BankAmerica's contemplated 
c°urse of action. 
Chase Manhattan Bank (Switzerland). In February 1972, The 
Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, New York, had 
aPplied for permission to purchase additional shares of its wholly-owned 
Subsidiary, Chase Manhattan Bank (Switzerland), Geneva, Switzerland. 
Th 
e Board's approval of the formation of the subsidiary in 1969 had 
n conditioned upon the parent bank's furnishing such reports regarding 
subsidiary as the Board might require and maintaining at the 
York head office all information needed by examiners. The parent 
i 
had contended that because of the secrecy provisions in Swiss law, 
tl° ^formation could be made available outside Switzerland on individual 
b°rrowers and credits extended to them. By letter dated July 12, 1972, 

rzoV 
4/16/73 
-8-
Chase Manhattan was informed that the Board would not approve the 
proposed additional investment in the subsidiary unless the parent 
bank gave a firm commitment to provide the necessary information. 
Subsequently Chase Manhattan requested a statement setting forth 
the type of information sought by the Board that could be submitted 
b y the Swiss subsidiary to the Swiss Federal Department of Justice 
with a request for a ruling that such information could be legally 
furnished. 
In a memorandum dated April 6, 1973, the Division of Supervision 
ar*d Regulation reviewed the relevant issues and suggested several 
Possible courses of action. 
At today's meeting, after discussion of the alternative 
aPproaches, it was agreed that the question would be considered 
further at the meeting on April 19, 1973. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

/'oOF CoV •. 
p l f c 
, Ac . * f 11-'.'.'/ ti' 
%: 0 
. 1258 
B O A R D LJF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F t h e . 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2055! 
Item No. 1 
4/16/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L CORRCSPONDENCE 
TO THE DOARO 
April 18, 1973 
Richard S. Kraut 
Ofn.co Chief 
Office of Enforcement Intelligence 
and Market"Surveillance 
securities and Exchange Commission 
500 North Capitol Street, N. VI. 
Washington, D. C. 
20549 
LV 
Mr. Kraut 
„ 
This refers to your recent inquiry whether under Herniation T, 
Credit by Brokers and Dealers" (12 C.F.R. 220), if there are simulta-
^ G o u s long and short positions in the same security in the same margin 
count (often referred to as a short sale "against the box"), such 
POSi (-ion. 
_ 
, .. _ _ 
. 
_-> 
_ r ».,.„ A 
U Q N 
J. • 
O1i-3ons may be used to supply the place of the deposit of margin 
umarily required in connection with the guarantee by a creditor o 
PUt 
Or 
f o i l 
.. .. . • 
.. 
. 
i 
• 
.1 
r 
. . . 
.. 
1 
of a 
o r call option or combination thereof on such stock, 
The applicable provisions of Regulation T arc § 220.3(d)(3) 
11 (r>) and § 220.3(g)(4) and (5) which provide as follows: 
"(d) . . . the adjusted debit balance of a general 
account . . , shall be calculated by taking the 
sum of t.he following items: 
(3) the current market Vcluc of any securities 
(other than unissued securities) sold "iiort. in 
the general account plus, for each security (other 
than an exempted security), such amour: as the 
Board shall prescribe from time to trr: in § 220.8 
(cl) (i.lte Supplement ic Regulation T) r - tin- margin 
required for such short sales, except that such 

1259 
Richard S. Kraut 
- 
2 
-
amount so prescribed in such § 220.8(d) need not be 
included when there are held in the general account 
the same securities or securities exchangeable or 
convertible within 90 calendar days, without res trie 
tion other than the payment of money, into such 
securities sold short; 
(5) the amount of any margin customarily required 
by the creditor in connection with his endorsement 
or guarantee of any put, call, or other option; 
(g) • • • (4) Any transaction which serves to meet 
the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section or 
otherwise serves to permit any offsetting transaction 
in an account shall, to that: extent, be unavailable 
to permit any other transaction in such account. 
(5) For the purposes of this part (Regulation T), 
if a security has maximum "Joan value um'zr paragraph 
(c)(1) of tin's section in a general accc nt, or under 
§ 220.A(j) in a special convertible deb_ security 
account, a sale of the same security (even thoue.h 
Dot the same certificate) in such accou.it shall be 
deemed to be a long sale and shall not te deemed to 
be or treated as a short sale." 
di. 
Rule 431 of the New York Stock Exchange requires that a ere-
lhp° 
a tn:iminium deposit of 25 per cent of the current market value 
a Put 
stock in connection with his issuance or guarantee of 
poR • ' anc^ a t least 30 per cent in the case of a call (and that such 
the.1!'01' 
"markecl to the market"), but permits < short position in 
and 
L o se**ve in lieu of the required deposi; in the case of a put 
a n. a long position to serve in the case of a ca1]. Thus, where the 
t[l0 ' riate position is held in an account, that ] xsition may serve as 
' ITIar8in required by § 220.3(d)(5). 
both i 
I n a s h o r t s al e "against the box", howe- .;r, the customer is 
Posjt--011" a n^ short the same security, lie may h? i established either 
dcipos ° n i r > r o p e rly margined, prior to taking the o' her, or he may have 
he 
J'ully paid securities in his margin acc nt on the same day 
v°"s a short sale of such securities. 
In eit'- .-r case, he w5 11 have 

_ 1260 
Mr. Richard S. Kraut 
- 3 -
directed his broker to borrow securities elsewhere in order to make 
delivery on the short sale rather than using his long position for this 
Purpose (see also 17 C..F.R. 240.3b-3). 
Generally speaking, a customer makes a short sale "against the 
b°x" for tax reasons. Regulation T, however, provides in § 220.3(g) 
that the two positions must be "netted out" for the purposes of the cal-
culations required by the regulation. 
Thus, the B.iard concludes that 
neither position would be available to serve as the deposit of margin 
required in connection with the endorsement by the creditor of an option. 
A similar conclusion obtains under § 220.3(d)(3). 
That sec-
tion provides, in essence, that the margin otherwise required in con-
aection with a short sale need not be included in the account if the 
customer has in the account a long position in the same security. 
In 
220«3(g)(4), however, it is provided that "[A]ny transaction which . 
' • serves to permit any offsetting transaction in an account shall, to 
•hat extent, be unavailable to permit any other transaction in such 
account." Thus, if a customer has, for example, a long position in a 
Security and that long position has been used to supply the margin required 
3,1 connection with a short sale of the same security, then the long posi-
tL°n i s unavailable, to serve as the margin required in connection with 
s creditor's endorsement cf a call option on sue n security. 
You have also described a situation in which a customer has 
^'ported to establish simultaneous offsetting lo:g and short positions 
y executing a "cross" or wash sale of the security on the same day. 
n this situation, no change in the beneficial ownership of stock has 
aken place. 
Since there is no actual "contra" party to either transac-
l0ri> and no stock has been borrowed or delivered to accomplish the short 
such fictitious positions would have no value tor purposes of the 
' s margin regulations. 
Indeed, the adoption of such a scheme in 
C0lHiecti.on with an overall strategy involving the issuance, endorsement 
guarantee of put or call options or combinations thereof appears to 
® manipulative and may have been employed for th*. purpose of circumventing 
G requirements of the regulations. 
Very truly yours. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Ches ter B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

r * ; G i 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R 5 
Item No. 2 
• F THE 
4/16/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
A p r i l 16, 1973 
First Empire State Corporation 
M&T Plaza 
Buffalo, New York 
14240 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 4, 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions 
o f Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
tended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, First 
Empire Bank-New York, New York, New York, all of the shares of 
First Empire Bank International N.V., ("International"), Willemstad, 
Curacao, Netherlands Antilles, at a cost of approximately $500,000, 
Provided at least $100,000 is invested within one year from the 
te of this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Sec-
tion 4(c) (13), International shall confine its activities to 
international or foreign banking and other international or foreign 
financial operations. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that 
e investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Ul"elines as they apply to First Empire Bank-New York and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

^OfCQU! 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R B 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 3 
4/16/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 16, 1973 
LaSalle National Bank 
l35 South LaSalle Street 
chlcago, Illinois 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to LaSalle National Bank ("LNB"), Chicago, Illinois, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 
a n d to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Section and of Regulation M«. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and not as a 
^cans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
is also understood that there is to be no concact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
may5 at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
Soing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
ypes of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, 
w 
the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
his branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
Ruction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Section 213.7(a) or the ex-
clusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the fur-
cr condition that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
be maintained at your head office and will "^e available to the 
,0ard and its accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly 
formed of any modification in the branch's methods of operation, in-
uding changes in any contract under which services are supplied to 
t h e branch. 
The foregoing permission to establish the proposed branch is 
Ranted subject to the condition that LNB shall liquidate its Nassau 
anch within six months after opening the branc -i on Grand Cayman. 

1 
Crocker National Bank 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
eserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
urnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
oard should also be promptly informed of any future change \n location 
o t the branch in Georgetown. 
q 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
^nited States and the District of Columbia are erxempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
so, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
^equirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
w . t f allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
n foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and con-
d e
n U e® t o b e t h e Policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
b a
P 0 S l t s bY United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
n s unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, nec-
0 
purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
e the United States. 
pr 
. 
with respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
adVa
 
b y h ° m e o f f i c e ( w h e ther in the form of allocated capital, 
p
o
s — , or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
conc^ ° f 
f ° r e i g n c r e d i t restraint effort. It:, view of the Board's 
of 
W i t h minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance 
condu^ m e n t S' t h C a b o v e c o n s e n t is given on the condition that in the 
r e S o
U C t o f t h e branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
as"ofrpGS o b t a l n e d outside the United States. The Board has noted that 
Natio !rbruary 2 8 j 1973, the foreign loans and investments of Crocker 
Credit 
R a n k e x c e e d e d t h e guideline ceiling applicable under the Foreign 
dil'io 
R e s t r a i n t Program. The foregoing consent is granted on the con-
so a° n t h a t
#those foreign loans and investments vrill be reduced promptly 
diti0
 t0, e l i m i n a t e a n y e x c e s s o v e r t h e guideline ceiling and on con-
leCV/a
n 
t h e investment will be made only whet: there is adequate 
t y U n der the guideline ceiling. 
Very truly your^, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the B ard 

I 
1 2 6 4 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m Nq> 
4 
° F T H E 
4/16/73* 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 16, 1973 
Crocker National Bank 
0rie Sansome Street 
S an Francisco, California 94104 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Crocker National Bank, San Francisco, California, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
t o establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman. Cayman Islands, and 
°Perate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
°ection and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
W3-ll be used for developing new international business and not as a 
^eans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
i s also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
f 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
racing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of 
ese types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
^°dified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against 
^Posits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without 
and6^*" 
e x c^ U S 3' o n Pr°vided in proviso (1' of Section 213.7(b), 
br 
^ 
further condition that adequate information covering the 
k^anch's operations will be maintained at your head office and will 
c, available to the Board and its accredited representatives. The Board 
0£ 
promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods 
°Peration, including changes in any contract under which services 
r e supplied to the branch. 
bUg. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
de |
ln°'ss ori o r before May 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall be 
aut-11^ t 0 ^ a v e heen abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
0matically terminate on that date. 

* A12 65 
LaSalle National Bank 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before May 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall be 
eemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the location of the branch,, The Board should 
also be promptly informed of any future change in location of the branch 
m Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
nited States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
s°> deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
. t o allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
t i 
foreign banks,, In these circumstances, it has long been and con-
nues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
^eposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
anks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, nec-
e.ssarw 
K 
purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
utside the United States, 
p r 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
vided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
ses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
"cern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance 
co ? a y m G n t s > tlle above consent is given on the condition that in the 
^ 
uct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
s t : 7 - s obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
Rest 
^ ^ 
a n y i n v c s t m e n t required will be made within the Foreign Credit 
rai.nt Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Foard 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
4/16/73 
A D D R E S S DFFlCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 17, 1973 
Ralph Dt Spencer, Jr. 
Vice President 
United Jersey Banks 
90 Nassau Street 
Princeton, New Jersey 
08540 
Dear Mr. Spencer: 
This refers to your letter of February 16, 1973, 
concerning your request for an extension of time to comply with 
Lhe Board's Order of February 17, 1972, insofar as it relates to 
the elimination of the home office protection held by The City 
National Bank of Millville, Millville, New Jersey. 
The Board has considered your request in the light of 
the facts you have presented and other information available to 
U s concerning the status of home office protection in New Jersey. 
On the basis of this information, the Board has approved an 
ac'di.tional six months or until August 17, 1973, to comply with 
the Board's Order which was conditioned upon the elimination of 
home office protection held by The City National Bank of Millville, 
Millville, New Jersey. 
The Board trusts that no further extensions of time will 
he requested. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tyrian Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Cc- 
Mr, Benjamin Stackhouse 
Manager, Bank Applications 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 

• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE EYSTEM 
' " " i t ' ^ i - ^ ? 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
maluu 
vUn" 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 6 
4/16/73 
' V ^ M L I 
(! 
' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
A p r i l 17, 1973 
Samuel K. Abrams, Esq. 
Morison, Murphy, Abrams & Haddock 
1776 K Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20006 
Dear Mr. Abrams: 
This is in reply to your letter of March 26, 1973, re-
garding the action of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond in 
soliciting bids for courier service for the Reserve Bank from, 
among others, subsidiaries of one or more bank holding companies. 
You express the view that the Reserve Bank's action in accepting 
a bid for courier service from one or more such holding company 
subsidiaries would represent a de facto judgment and determina-
tion of an issue presently before the Board for determination, 
namely, whether bank holding companies should be permitted to 
engage in couriei service activity under § 4(c)(B) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act. You request that the Be. 'd take appropri-
ate action to insure that no bid is submitted by, or contract 
entered into with, a courier subsidiary of a bank holding company 
with respect to the Richmond Reserve Bank cou ler contract. 
Information presented to the Board 
aggests that the 
courier activities of the two bank holding companies in the Fifth 
District that might bid on the Richmond contract are, according 
to the date that courier services were initiated by the courier 
subsidiaries, "grandfathered" activities of tue respective hold-
ing companies, and thus activities presently permitted to be con-
ducted until at least December 31, 1930. This entitlement would 
obtain regardless of the ultimate decision the Board reaches on 
the merits of the courier issue. 
Even if the "grandfather" status mc Cioned be later 
determined not to obtain, and should one of the holding companies 
in question be the successful bidder on the Richmond contract, it 
would appear that such contract as may be negotiated for courier 
s<-rvi.ee could be conditioned upon the lawful hility of the con-
tracting carrier to perform the service cailc 
for in the contract. 

S amug1 K. A b r ams , Es q. 
- 2 -
* 
1 2 
Thus, should a courier subsidiary of a bank holding company be 
awarded the contract in question, and should a legal impediment 
to contract performance arise, the continued effectiveness of 
such contract would, by the terms of the contract, be conditioned 
upon the ability of the contracting courier to comply fully with 
existing requirements of applicable law and regulations. 
The Board believes that action of the nature you re-
quest that would preclude receipt and consideration of a bid from 
an otherwise wholly qualified bidder could itself be said to 
represent a prejudgment and determination of the very issues that 
are pending before the Board in the courier proceedings. 
Need-
less to say, no action taken by the' Richmond Reserve Bank with 
respect to its courier contract will affect the Board's decision 
which will be made upon the basis of the record trade with partic-
ipation by all affected parties. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynrn Smith 
Tynan Smith 
• Secretary of the Board 
cc: Mr. Robert P. Black 

r 
i o 
& 
K r e S ^ - " 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
4/16/73 
ADDRESS O F F I C I A L CORRESPONDENCE 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
A p r i l 18, 1973 
William S. Ogden, Executive Vice President 
^ e Chase Manhattan Bank National Association 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Dear Mr. Ogden: 
Reference is made to your letter of: March 1 6, 1973, re-
jecting the Board to extend until April 18, 1974, the time in which 
your bank ("Chase") might take appropriate steps with regard to Chase's 
holding of shares in Standard and Chartered Banking Group Ltd. ("Group") 
that would constitute compliance with the Board's letter of April 18, 
1972. Further reference is made to your letter of April 5, 19 73, 
^hich requested a Board ruling that a proposal to shift the shares 
o f the Chartered Bank of London, San Francisco, California, now held 
by the Chartered Bank Ltd. to a pension trust of one of the banks in 
the Group would constitute compliance with the Bo ird's letter of 
April. 13, 19 72. 
In the Board's opinion, the proposed pension trust arrange-
ment would continue to place control of the California bank within 
the Group and the Group would consequently remain engaged in activi-
ties in the United States of a kind other than those incidental to 
an international or foreign business. Accordingly, the Board would 
n°t regard that arrangement as a satisfactory means of compliance 
V7i-th the conditions attached to the Board's consents to your holding 
shares in the Group. 
It appears to the Board that efforts to achieve a reorgani-
sation of the Group's activities in the United States or otherwise to 
meet the conditions in the Board's consents have failed. 
Therefore, 
the Board hereby orders Chase to divest its sharr ? in the Group on or 
before April 18, 1974, to submir. to the Board a \ 
of divestiture 
Within 90 days, and to furnish reports- at 90-day intervals thereafter 
progress in disposing of those shares. This 
rder shall be effec-
1ive immediately and shall remain in effect unle; s within a period of 

Mr. William S. Ogden 
~2~ 
90 days from the date or this letter Chase shall have submitted, 
and the Board shall have found satisfactory, an alternative means 
compliance with the conditions attached to the Board's earlier 
consents. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1271 
^myO^b-. 
mm 
fee®?.* 
B O A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
205bl 
Item No. 8 
4/16/73 
ADDRESS OrFICIAL CUROESPDNDf.NCE 
TO THE: uriAWD 
April 18, 1973 
Eugene J. Keogh. Esq. 
Kalpin, Keogh & St. John 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 1.0020 
Dear Mr. Keogh: 
Reference is made to your request on behalf of the Standard-
Chartered Banking Group, Limited, London, England, for a ruling that 
Standard-Chartered is engaged, directly or indirectly, in the United 
States only in activities that are incidental to its international or 
foreign business within the meaning of sections 2 5 or 25(a) of the 
federal Reserve Act, and to your letters of January 10, January 22, 
January 25, February 22, March 1, and March 30, IrJ 73, in support of 
that contention» 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation. New York 
("0MOBC" ) , acquired shares of Standard-Chartered pursuant to sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act which authorizes any corporation 
0rSan 1 zed thereunder to purchase and hold, with, the Board's consent., 
shares of any corporation not engaged in the general business of buying 
0 r selling goods, wares, merchandise or commodities in the United States 
and not transacting any business in the United States except such as in 
the. Board's judgment may be incidental to its international or foreign 
business. Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., New York, acquired those shares 
trom CMOBC and holds them under a similar restriction pursuanc to 
Section" 25 of the Federal Reserve Act which authorizes any national 
baak to acquire and hold, with Board approval, s ...ock in any foreign 
ba^k that is not engaged, directly or indirectly, in any activity in 
the United States except as, in the Board's jud^ ;?.nt, shall be inci-
dental to the international or foreign business ••;£ such foreign bank. 

IO
W 
a * 1 
Eugene J. Keogh, Esq, 
~2« 
Based on the information available to the Board and after 
full consideration of your views, the Board declines to make the 
requested ruling. It appears that Standard-Chartered is engaged 
indirectly through the Chartered Bank of London, San Francisco, 
California, in activities in the United States that involve the. con-
duct. of purely domestic banking business and that the Board would not 
consider to be incidental to international or foreign business. 
Very truly youts, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
