MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 31, 19 73 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act entries covering the items in this set of 
minutes commencing on the pages and dealing with the subjects 
referred to below: 
Page 
3 Statement of policy on supervision 
of foreign operations of member banks. 
Page 
4 Amendment to Regulation M, Foreign 
Activities of National Banks, 

XS31 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 31, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 2:45 p.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Vining, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

1337 
5/31/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. Pursuant to the recommendation in a memo-
randum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated May 25, 
1973, the Board unanimously approved delegation of authority to the 
Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation to release 
reports and other information prepared or filed in connection with 
securities credit Regulations G, T, U, and X. In this connection 
the Board approved publication of such delegation in the Federal 
Register as an amendment to the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation 
of Authority. A copy of the amendment is attached as Item No. 1. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Personnel 
Administration in a memorandum dated May 25, 1973, the Board unanimously 
approved a cost-of-living increase of 6.1 per cent for those Board 
Plan retirees and survivor-annuitants who were on the retirement rolls 
as of July 1, 1973, with the understanding that the Executive Secretary 
of the Federal Reserve Employee Benefits System would be requested to 
charge the liability created by this cost-of-living adjustment against 
the excess reserves allocable to the Board Plan. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Executive Secretary is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Whitmore 
Bancorporation, Inc., Corning, Iowa, to form a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of The Page County State Bank, Clarinda, 
Iowa, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 

1933 
5/31/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of The First 
National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares 
of Republic National Bank of Pueblo, Pueblo, Colorado, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Patagonia 
Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, to acquire indirectly certain assets 
of Tucson Finance Company, Tucson, Arizona, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Pennsyl-
vania Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to acquire the common 
stock of Performance Associates, Inc., Denver, Colorado, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
I_tem No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United Jersey 
Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey, to acquire shares of Par-Troy State 
Bank, Parsippany-Troy Hills, New Jersey, and authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated May 29, 1973, the Board unanimously approved publi-
cation of an interpretation of Regulations K and M as a statement of 
the Board's policy on supervision of foreign branches and subsidiaries 
°f member banks. A copy of the statement of policy is attached under 

1337 
5/31/73 
-4-
As recommended in a memorandum from the Division of Interna-
tional Finance dated May 30, 1973, the Board unanimously approved 
an amendment to Regulation M, Foreign Activities of National Banks, 
effective June 21, 1973, to exclude certain loans by foreign branches 
to U.S. residents from the computation of reserve requirements. 
A 
copy of the notice published in the Federal Register is attached as 
Item No. 9. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Committee on Federal Reserve 
Bank Activities, the Board unanimously approved the payment of salary 
to Wesley G. DeVries as Senior Vice President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco at the rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Direc-
tors. A copy of the letter informing the Bank of this action is attached 
as Item No. 10. 
In a memorandum of May 30, 1973, the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations recommended approval of a letter to the British Embassy, 
Washington, D. C., regarding the proposed use of United States currency 
in the Turksand Caicos Islands. The Board unanimously approved the 
letter to the British Embassy. A copy is attached as Item No. 11. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Manufacturers 
Hanover International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, to 
acquire shares of Manufacturers Hanover Asia Limited, a merchant bank 
to be formed in Hong Kong. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 12. 

1 T l ^ 
JLhJxMJ 
5/31/73 
-5-
The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the appli-
cation of American National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois, to establish a branch in Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. A 
copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 13. 
In a memorandum of May 25, 1973, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended that the Board approve an extension of time 
for Michigan National Corporation, Lansing, Michigan, to sell a $10 
million equity issue. 
(The issue represented a capital addition 
required by the Board in connection with the formation of the bank 
holding company.) The Board unanimously approved the extension. A 
copy of the letter sent to Michigan National Corporation is attached 
as Item No. 14. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its 
approval, on May 22, 1973, of the application of Security New York 
State Corporation, Rochester, New York, to acquire shares of First 
Trust Union Bank, Wellsville, New York. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 15. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
American Indian National Bank. On May 24, 1973, the Board 
considered a question involving holding company status and presumptions 
of control with respect to the proposed organizational arrangements 
for American Indian National Bank. The Board authorized the staff 
to indicate to the participants that the control presumptions in Regu-
lation Y, Bank Holding Companies, would apply, and that only a control 

193G 
5/31/73 
-6-
proceeding could resolve related questions. One element at issue in 
the arrangements was a proposed management consulting agreement between 
International Bank, Washington, D. C., and the organizers of American 
Indian National Bank. 
In a memorandum of May 30, 1973, the Legal Division described 
amendments that had been made in the proposed arrangements that removed 
some of the features related to presumptions of control. The Division 
recommended that the request for a commitment not to bring control 
proceedings be denied unless the management consulting agreement 
specified that (1) no director, officer, or employee of American Indian 
National Bank would have present or past affiliations with either 
International Bank, Financial General Bankshares, Inc., or any subsid-
iary of either, and (2) the contract provided that it may not be 
extended beyond a five-year period. A draft letter to the agent for 
the organizers of American Indian National Bank was attached to the 
memorandum. 
After discussion the letter was approved, Governor Brimmer 
dissenting on the ground that International Bank is a bank holding 
company and therefore not eligible to undertake the proposed project. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 16. 
International Bank. At the meeting on March 15, 1973, the 
Board considered the staff recommendation that International Bank, 
Washington, D. C., had ceased to control Central National Bancshares, 

1337 
5/31/73 
-7-
Inc., Des Moines, Iowa, as well as the latter's subsidiary bank, 
Central National Bank and Trust Company, also of Des Moines. 
It was 
agreed that the staff would provide additional information. 
In memoranda of May 22 and 30, 1973, the Legal Division set 
forth its views for approval of a letter to International Bank advising 
of the Board's concurrence in International Bank's position that it 
has terminated its control over Central National Bancshares. A second 
issue of ascertainment of a Board position as to the status of Inter-
national Bank with respect to control, or not, of Financial General 
Bankshares, Inc., Washington, D. C., was also considered in the memo-
randa but was not discussed at today's meeting. 
During discussion comment was made that the draft letter 
attached to the memorandum of May 22, 1973, did not go far enough. 
It 
was felt that no purchaser either directly or indirectly should acquire 
at sale shares aggregating more than 2 per cent of the outstanding 
common stock of Central National Bancshares. 
On the basis of the additional stipulation as described in 
the preceding paragraph and on actions taken and agreed to by Interna-
tional Bank the Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the 
determination that International Bank has ceased to be a bank holding 
company with respect to control of Central National Bancshares, Inc. 
A copy of the letter sent to counsel for International Bank is attached 
as Item No. 17. 

1 1938 
5/31/73 
-8-
Central National Bancshares. As recommended by the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section in a 
memorandum dated May 30, 1973, the Board approved, Governor Brimmer 
dissenting, the applications of Central National Bancshares, Inc., 
Des Moines, Iowa, to acquire indirectly shares of the following Iowa 
banks: The Security State Bank, Algona; First State Bank, Britt; 
and United Home Bank and Trust Co., Mason City. Issuance of an order 
reflecting the Board's decision of approval was authorized on the 
understanding that International Bank, Washington, D, C., would 
accept the conditions contained in the letter referred to in the 
preceding entry. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Melnicoff, 
and Smith then withdrew and Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations, entered the room. 
Presidency at Richmond. The Board discussed the status of 
the search for a President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond as 
outlined in Mr. Holland's memorandum to Chairman Burns dated May 29, 
19 73. 
(A copy of the memorandum has been placed in the Secretary's 
confidential file.) It was noted that the Board of Directors of the 
Richmond Bank still felt that Mr. Robert P. Black was the most suitable 
candidate for the Richmond presidency. 
Messrs. Melnicoff, Smith, and Burke withdrew at this point, 
Mr. Holland remaining in the meeting. 

li; 
5/31/73 
-9-
The Board members reviewed again the list of possible candi-
dates and gave attention to other suggestions by individual Governors. 
The Board agreed on four additional names for transmission to the 
Richmond Board as individuals whom the Board of Governors would be 
prepared to approve as President of the Richmond Bank if the Richmond 
Board so voted. Mr. Holland was directed to communicate this list 
to Chairman Lawson or his representative. 
In addition, it was understood that further information would 
be developed on the qualifications of four other individuals. 
Chairman Burns suggested the desirability of investigating 
the outstanding deans at some of the Southern universities. Mr. Holland 
was to explore this possibility with President Winn of the Cleveland 
Reserve Bank, in view of his long previous service as Dean of the 
Wharton School of Finance and Commerce. Mention was also made of 
retaining an executive search firm to develop a list of suitable candi-
dates . 
(Note: A more detailed version of the discussion at today's 
meeting has been placed in the Secretary's confidential file.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

. _ 13 40 
4 
Item No. 1 
5/31/73 
TITLE 12 -- BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II -- FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A -- BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265 -- RULES REGARDING DELEGATION 
OF AUTHORITY 
Specific Function Delegated 
In order to expedite and facilitate the handling of certain 
o f its functions, the Board has amended its Rules Regarding Delegation 
Authority pursuant to the provisions of section 12(k) of the 
federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248 (k)) to delegate to the Director 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation the authority to make 
available reports and other information of the Board relating to 
Peculations G,T,U, and X (Parts 207, 220, 221, and 224 of this 
chapter). 
^hfc amendment reads as follows: 
Section 265.2 -- SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS DELEGATED TO BOARD 
EMPLOYEES AND FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
* 
* 
* 
if 
* 
(c) The Director of Division of Supervision and Regulation 
(°r> in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(19) Pursuant t.o the provisions of Part 261 of this 
, to rr.sk e evaileblo raportn. acid -.ether inforcrwCion-of the 

19-11 
- 4 
- 2 -
Board acquired pursuant to Parts 207 , 220, 221, and 224 (Regulations 
G,T,U, and X) of the nature and in the circumstances described in 
§ 261.6(a)(2) and (3) of Part 261. 
Effective date: May 31, 1973. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 31, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
~ 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

i 
Item No. 2 
5/31/73. 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E S Y S T E M ' 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F T H r 
June 8, 1973 
Mr. Martin W. Bergin, Executive Secretary 
Federal Reserve Employee Benefits System 
c/o Federal Preserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
In continuation of the practice of maintaining the 
retirement benefits of the Board Plan comparable to those of the 
U. S. Civil Service Retirement System, the annuities of Board 
Plan retirees and survivor-annuitants which commence on or before 
July ]., 1973, should be increased by 6.1 percent, effective that 
date. 
There is enclosed a copy of Civil Service bulletin No. 831-47 
announcing this latest increase in the annuities of its retirees and 
survivor-annuitants. 
The Board of Governors requests that the cost of applying 
this increase to the annuities of its retirees and survivor-annuitants 
the rolls as of July 1, 1973, be funded through the use of excess 
reserves allocable to the Board Plan. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Enclosures 

1943 
Item No. 3 
5/31/73 
FEDEFvAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WHITMORE BANC ORPORAT ION, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Whitmore Bancorporation, Inc., Corning, Iowa, has applied for the 
Sard's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through acquisition of 
8 0 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Page County State Bank, 
Clarinda, Iowa ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P^sons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
n°ne has been received. The Board has considered the application in light 
of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, recently organized for the purpose of becoming a hold-
in8 company, has engaged in no business activities and has no subsidiaries. 
B a n^ (deposits of $12.9 million) is slightly the larger of the two banks in 
C3-arinda and is the largest of the five banks in Page County, accounting for 
^ Per cent of the aggregate deposits held by the five banks. (All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1972.) The transaction is merely a reorganization 
hereby the shareholders who control Bank directly at the present time will 
c°ntrol Bank indirectly through Applicant. Accordingly, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposal will not eliminate any existing nor potential 
c°mPetition, increase concentration of banking resources, nor have an undue 
adverse effect on the other banks in the relevant area. 

-1944 
-2-
The management, financial condition, and prospects of Bank are all 
c°nsidered satisfactory. The management of Applicant is essentially the same 
as that of Bank; and the financial condition of Applicant and its prospects, 
wktch will depend largely upon Bank at least initially, appear to be satis-
^ctory. The ability of Bank to meet any need that develops in the area for 
a broader range of financial services may be enhanced as a result of the 
f ] 4 
exibility afforded by the holding company structure. Hence, considerations 
Elating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are 
c°nsistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
ition would be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
to sons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
sUch 
11 Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
atlk of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
tSEAL] 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Shee^otin8 for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
a n and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

_ 194 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/31/73 
THE FIRST NATIONAL ^ C O R P O R A T I O N , INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The First National Eancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Republic National Bank of Pueblo, Pueblo, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and viewss has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
^ d none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Colorado, 
controls nine banks with deposits of $807.4 million, representing 15.2 
Per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the State. (All 
hanking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect holding company forma-
tions and acquisitions approved through April 30, 1973.) 
Consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition of Bank (£18.5 million of deposits) would 
increase Applicant's share of deposits of commercial banks in Colorado 
iTftTjune 9, 1970 and November 3, 1970, respectively, the Board announced 
^ e approval of Applicant's applications to acquire The First National 
Bank of Greeley, Greeley, Colorado ($40 million of deposits) and ihe 
Security State Bank of Sterling, Sterling, Colorado ($24 million of 
deposits). Consummation of these acquisitions has been delayed by 
litigation instituted by the Department of Justice. 

; 1946 
-2-
by less than .5 percentage points and would not result in a significant 
increase in concentration of bank resources in Colorado. 
Bank operates one office in a suburban shopping center outside 
of the central business district of Pueblo and is the fifth largest of 
eight commercial banks in that city, controlling 10 per cent of the total 
dePosits of commercial banks in that area. Bank is located 105 miles 
s°uth of Applicant's lead bank (First National Bank, Denver, deposits 
of $615 million) which is located in Denver, Colorado, and is the largest 
commercial bank in the State. Applicant's subsidiary bank closest to 
Bank is located in Colorado Springs, approximately AO miles north of 
Puebl0. No significant competition exists between Bank and any of 
applicant's subsidiaries and it appears unlikely that any significant 
c°n\petition would develop in the future between Bank and Applicant's 
Subsidiary banks in view of distances separating these banks and Colorado's 
restrictive branching laws. 
It appears also that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
not have an adverse effect on potential banking competition in the 
leblo area. Applicant could enter the Pueblo market d<2 n6vo or through 
^ i s i t i o n of one of the three smaller banks in that market, however, 
th 
e s e alternatives appear somewhat limited in view of the reduced rate 
Of economic development and population growth in thb Pueblo area during 
LI 
Qe last few years. In 1972, officers and directors of Bank were instrumental 
n °rganizing what is now the smallest bank in the Pueblo market. Con-
gelation of the proposed acquisition of Bank will result in a termination 
this affiliation and thereby have a beneficial effect upon the develop-
6nt of additional competition among banking organizations in the Pueblo 

, 1347 
-3-
area. Based on the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any 
relevant area but should enable bank to continue to compete aggressively 
with the larger banks in its market, two of which are members of bank 
holding company organizations and, in addition, provide an additional 
competitor in Bank's market. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries and Bank 
appear satisfactory and are consistent with approval of the application. 
The major banking needs of the Pueblo area are being adequately served 
at the present time by existing banking organization. However, affiliation 
with Applicant would provide Bank with a more convenient source of 
additional funds and enable Bank to provide, through Applicant, an 
expanded range of specialized financial services. Bank has been an 
aggressive competitor since it began operations in 1962. Affiliation 
wlth Applicant should assist bank in its efforts to continue to expand 
its lending activities beyond its suburban location and to participate 
in and promote what appears to be a recent resurgence of economic 
activity in the Pueblo area. Considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the Pueblo community, therefore, lend weight toward approval 
of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction 
Would be in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

_ 1348 
-4-
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
o r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority, 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
f SEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
Keshan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

. 1919 
Item No. 5 
5/31/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE] SYSTEM 
PATAGOHIA CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Tucson Finance Company 
Patagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, a bank holding 
CoiKpany within the meaning of the Bank Folding Company Act, has 
^Plied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
S 225.4 (b) (2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire (through 
'•°clel Finance Company of Tucson, Arizona, a wholly-owned sub-
l(Uary o f patagonia Corporation's wholly-owned subsidiary, Hodel 
Pi^ance Company) certain assets of Tucson Finance Company, Tucson, 
Ati2ona, a company that engages in the activities of a consumer 
<:^nce company and acting as agent or broker in the sale to its 
^-tors of credit life, accident and health insurance which is 
Meetly related to extensions of credit to those debtors. Such 
*ctivities have been determined by the Board to be closely related 
th® business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (9)(ii)(a)). 
Hotice of the application, affording opportunity for 
itit-
er<a steel persons to submit comments and views on the public 
;ntGrest f a c t o r s^ h a s b e e n d u l y published (38 Federal Register 
• The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
has" been timely received. 
Applicant's banking subsidiary, Great Western Bank & 
CUst ("Great Uesteriv ) , is the fifth largest bank in 
Al?i^na0 
its deposits of approximately $177 million represent 
K 

1950 
-2-
per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
Western's four Tucson offices (approximately $28 million 
n deposits) make it the fifth largest of six banking organizations 
feting in the Pima County banking market, which includes Tucson.-' 
''•'•icant also has nonbanking subsidiaries engaged principally 
n consumer finance activities, leasing of personal property and 
^-Pment, and operating a savings and loan association. 
Tucson Finance operates one office in downtown Tucson and 
is 
Essentially a one-man operation. Applicant is seeking to 
^uire only the outstanding consumer receivables and the related 
France contracts of Tucson Finance. The consumer receivables of 
V s n r , 
2/ 
ur* Finance amount to about $135,000." Tucson Finance competes 
Personal loans within the Tucson area with 24 licensed finance 
^Panies (a number of which are national in scope) operating 
Out o f 3 8 offices, including a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
Ah 
•^cant's, Hodel Finance Company of Tucson ("riodel") . Model 
C W o offices in Tucson, one of which was just recently opened 
% no 
in East Tucson. It is the Board's judgment that the 
V
e 
acquisition would have no significant adverse effect on 
C1ng competition as no meaningful existing competition would 
banking data are as of June 30, 1972. 
nonbanking data are as of year-end 1972. 

1951 
- 3 -
K 
. 
eliminated by approval of this application. /loreover, because 
the large number of remaining competitors, including a number 
Uj-th regional or national affiliations, the many potential entrants 
the relative ease of entry into the consumer finance business, 
^ere a r G n o significant adverse effects upon potential competi-
Furthermore, it appears that, in general, finance companies 
^ commercial banks do not compete for loans to the same class 
0f borrowers? accordingly, the Board concludes that consummation 
Of J . . 
"-ne acquisition would not eliminate significant existing or 
^otential competition between Great Western's Tucson offices and 
^cson Finance., 
Hodel and Tucson Finance both sell credit life, accident 
health insurance in connection with loans they originate. 
V 
. 
. . . 
no the limited nature of Tucson Finance's insurance activities, 
it v 
•icant would have any significant effect on either existing or 
not appear that operation of such insurance activities by 
competition. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consumma-
of the proposal would result in any undue concentration of 
oll^ces, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound 
practices, or other adverse effects on the public interest 
<J-cant's greater financial resources and specialized services 

1952 
-A 
sho^ld enable it to better service the existing customers of 
^cson Finance and provide them with local servicing on their 
after Tucson Finance's office is closed upon the sale of 
fucs°n Finance to Applicant and the retirement of Tucson Finance's 
shareholder and principal employee„ Also, customers of 
Finance resident in the Fast Tucson area will find it more 
c°ftvenient to be serviced out of iiodel's Fast Tucson office, 
^thermore, Jiodel's competitive strength should be increased 
that it may better compete with the local offices of its 
Clonal competitors. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the 
^frlic interest factors the Board is required to consider under 
(c)(3) is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby 
Proved„ This determination is subject to the conditions set 
in S 22504 (c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority 
° tGquire such modification or termination of the activities of 
h i d i n g 
company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds 
eSsary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes ' 

IfJfjKi 
-5-
Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, 
°r to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 1/ effective June 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
{SEAL] 
&H V o t l n9 for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane 
Mii.rn!ner' Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor 
ltchell. 

, 1954 
Item No. 6 
5/31/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST PENNSYLVANIA CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Performance Associates, Inc., -.Colorado 
First Pennsylvania Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and section 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Regulation Y, for permission to acquire all the issued and outstand-
ing common stock of Performance Associates, Inc., - Colorado, Denver, 
Colorado ("Performance"), a company registered with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 
which provides portfolio investment advisory and portfolio invest-
ment management services, primarily to individuals and institutions. 
Such activity has been determined by the Board to be closely related 
to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(4) and (5)).^ 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public inter-
est factors, has been duly published (38 Federal Register 3628). 
^he time for filing comments and views has expired and none has been 
timely received, 
if Applicant has indicated that management services does not include 
tlle right to vote any securities and that in no event will the 
8ecurities be in the name of Performance. 

_ 2 - 
i _. 
O O 
Applicant controls one bank, The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company, Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania ("Bank"), which, as of 
June 30, 1972, was the nineteenth largest bank in the United States, 
the second largest in Pennsylvania, and the largest in the Philadelphia 
market area, with total deposits of $2.6 billion. One of its nonbank-
ing subsidiaries^ Vestaur Corporation ("Vestaur"), provides invest-
ment advisory services to individuals, corporations and institutions, 
in the Philadelphia area, where its only office is located. Bank also 
provides investment advisory services, SO per cent of which business 
originates in the State of Pennsylvania. It has only one client in 
the area where Performance operates, an individual residing in Tucson, 
Arizona. 
Performance has its only office in Denver, Colorado. It 
derives 66 per cent of its business from the two States of Colorado 
and Wyoming and 80 per cent of its business from the eight-State area 
comprised of Colorado, Wyoming, Nebraska, New Mexico, South Dakota, 
Utah, Idaho and Arizona. It competes with approximately 20 investment 
advisory firms located in Colorado and with an undetermined larger 
number of such firms in the eight-State area, from which it derives 
most of its income. Because of the distances separating Applicant's 
existing investment advisory businesses and Performance, the proposed 
acquisition would not appear to eliminate any significant existing 
competition. 
2/ y^pl.icant also ha7"noubanking subsidiaries engaged in mortgage 
hanking, data processing, equi.pmenr tensing and consumer financing. 

. 1956 
•3-
. • i 
Performance is a small company with Assets of $67,853, as 
of August 31, 1972. It began operations September 10, 19&9, and, as 
is not unusual in the investment advisory business, sustained losdes 
in its first three years. The deficit decreased for the yeat ended 
August 31, 1972, however, and profitable operations are anticipated 
in the near future. The proposed affiliation, making available 
to Performance the financial resources of Applicant and the research 
facilities of Vestaur, should enable Performance to expand and improve 
its services, to the benefit of the public. 
Although Applicant has the financial resources to enter the 
geographic market where Performance operates, on a de novo basis, there 
are no significant barriers to entry, and a large number of other 
potential entrants are available to enter the market. In view of these 
circumstances, and the small size and limited financial resources of 
Performance, it appears unlikely that the proposed acquisition would 
have any adverse effects on probable future competition. 
There is no evidence in the record that consummation of 
the acquisition would result in any undue concentration of resources, 
unfair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, 
°r other adverse effects. 
Applicant proposes to have Vestaur acquire the Performance 
stock for cash. Vestaur was acquired by Applicant June 17, 1970, 
before the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, and 
under section 4(a)(2) of the Act may not be retained beyond December 31, 
1980, without Board approval. Applicant has not as yet filed an appli-
cation to retain the Vestaur shares, nor has the Board in its consideration 

_ 1957 
-3-
of the instant proposal., passed on the merits of such retention. Under 
these circumstances, the Board believes that it would be in the public 
interest to approve the acquisition of Performance on condition that 
Applicant maintain the assets of Performance separate and apart from 
those of Vestaur, and, upon consummation of the acquisition, operate 
Performance as a separate business entity. This condition may be 
Hfted at such time as the Board has an opportunity to make a deter-
mination on an application subsequently filed to retain the shares 
of Vestaur. 
V 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved on the 
condition that Applicant maintain the assets of Performance separate 
apart from those of Vestaur and operate Performance as a separate 
business entity. This determination is further subject to the conditions 
set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and the Board's authority 
to 
require such modification or termination of the activities of a 
holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
t o assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the 
Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion 
thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 31, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
3y~Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

1958 
Item No. 7 
5/31/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTE" 
UNITED JERSEY BANKS 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Ban]; Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under <> 3(a)(3) of 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842 (a)(3)), to acquire 100 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of Par-Troy State Pank, Parsippany-Troy Fills, 
Jersey ("Bank' ) » 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
accordance with 5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing 
c°mments and views has expired, and the Board has considered 
^e application and all comments received in light of the factors 
SQt forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(c)). 
Applicant controls 15 banks, with aggregate deposits of 
billion, representing about 7 per cent of the total deposits 
of commercial banks in New Jersey. 1/ The acquisition of Bank 
deposits of $7.4 million) by Applicant would not significantly 
"^crease the concentration of banking resources in the State. 
Bank is the thirty-second largest of 47 banks located 
the relevant banking market with less than one-half of 
°ne per cent of market deposits.!/ Applicant has three 
p7 Banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect holding 
??mPany formations and acauisitions approved by the Board 
J^ough April 30, 1973. 
The relevant banking market is approximated by the C-reater 
^ a r k ?r~a, "hich consists of Essex County, Union County except 
the Plainfield area, the eastern half of ".orris County, and 
u^son County west of the Hackensack River. 

- 2 -
e*isting banking subsidiaries in the Greater Newark market, and has 
a fourth banking subsidiary on the periphery of such market. 
though there would be some elimination of actual competition 
between these subsidiaries of Applicant and Bank, it would not be 
substantial. The total market shares of Applicant's subsidiaries 
is only a little over 2 per cent, so that the acquisition of Bank 
bY Applicant would result in Applicant having only about 2.5 per 
cent of the market deposits in the Greater Newark area. Moreover, 
a large number of small banks would remain available for acquisition 
bY banking organizations seeking to enter the Greater Newark 
^rket. On the basis cf the facts of record, the Board concludes 
that competitive considerations are consistent with approval 
the application. 
The managerial and financial condition and future prospects 
of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are generally 
SatiSfactory. However, Applicant should be able to provide 
Bank with greater continuity of management so that this factor lends 
sUpport f o r ap p r o v ai Gf the application. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the community to be served lend 
s°n\e support for approval of the application since acquisition 
0f Bank by Applicant will enable Bank to offer a fuller range of 
Se^vices than it is presently able to do. The Board concludes 
thlat approval of the application is in the public interest. 

1960 
-3-
On the basis of the record the application is approved 
•c 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
the effective date of this Order, or (b) later than three months 
*£ter the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
^tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
of Mev; York, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective June 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tsEAL] 
jpT^VoFing f o r t h i s action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, 
Mfimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor 
^ t c h e l l . 

mMMv-
Mini m 
• m m - -
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
or T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
5/31/73 
19G1 
S-2239 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 1, 1973 
Enclosed is an interpretation of Regulation K, 
"Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing Under 
the Federal Reserve Act", and Regulation M, "Foreign Activities 
of.National Banks", The interpretation is a statement of 
policy on the availability of information to facilitate super-
vision of foreign operations of member banks. 
The interpretation will be published in the Federal 
Register and in the June 1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Very truly yours, 
/ Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND THE VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

S-2239 -a 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE. SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE • 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. K and M] 
PART 211--CORPORATIONS ENGAGED IN FOREIGN 
BANKING AND FINANCING UNDER THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE ACT 
PART 213--FOREIGN ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL 
BANKS 
§ 211.110 
Statement: of policy on availability of Information to facil -
itate 
supervision of foreign operations of member banks. 
For text of interpretation, see § 213.104 of this chapter. 
§ 213.104 
Statement of policy on availability of information to facil-
itate 
supervision of foreign, operations of member 
banks. 
For the guidance of member banks having foreign operations, 
the Board publishes the following statement of policy regarding avail-
ability of information pertaining to member banks' foreign branches and 
subsidiaries to enable proper supervision of those operations: 
(a) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
as a central bank, is properly concerned with the preservation and 
promotion of a sound banking system in the United States. The Board of 
Governors and other federal banking supervisory authorities have been 
given specific statutory responsibilities to assure that banking insti-
tutions are operated in a safe and prudent manner affording protection 
to depositors and providing adequate and efficient banking services to 
the public on a continuing basis. These responsibilities and concerns 
ai"e shared by central banks and bank supervisors the world over. 

~ , 
_1363 
- 2 - 
4 
(b) Under sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, 
the Board has particular responsibilities to supervise the international 
operations of member banks in the public interest. 
In carrying out these 
responsibilities, the Board has sought to assure that the international 
operations of member banks would not only foster the foreign commerce of 
the United States but that they would also be conducted so as not to en-
croach on the maintenance of a sound and effective banking structure in 
the United States. 
In keeping with the latter consideration, the Board 
believes it incumbent upon member banks to supervise and administer their 
foreign branches and subsidiaries in such a manner as to assure that their 
operations are conducted at all times in accordance with high standards of 
banking and financial prudence. 
(c) Proper administration and supervision of foreign branches 
and subsidiaries require the use of effective systems of records, con-
trols, and reports that will keep the bank's management informed of the 
activities and condition of its branches and subsidiaries. At a minimum, 
such systems should provide the following: 
(1) Risk assets. To permit assessment of exposure to loss, 
information furnished or available to head office should be sufficient 
to permit periodic and systematic appraisals of the quality of loans and 
other extensions of credit. 
Coverage should extend to a substantial pro-
portion of the risk assets in the branch or subsidiary, and include the 
status of all large credit lines and of credits co customers also borrow-
ing from other offices of the bank. 
Information on credit extensions 

. . 
_ 19*34 
-3- 
4 
should include (i) a recent financial statement of the borrower and 
current information on his financial condition; (ii) credit terms, 
conditions, and collateral; (iii) data on any guarantors; (iv) payment 
history; and (v) status of corrective measures employed. 
(2) Liquidity. To enable assessment of local management's 
ability to meet its obligations from available resources, reports should 
identify the general sources and character of the deposits, borrowings, 
etc., employed in the branch or subsidiary with special reference to their 
terms and volatility. 
Information should be available on sources of 
liquidity—cash, balances x^ith banks, marketable securities, and repay-
ment flows—such as will reveal their accessibility in time and any risk 
elements involved. 
(3) Contingencies. 
Data on the volume and nature of con-
tingent items such as loan commitments and guaranties or their equivalents 
that permit analysis of potential risk exposure and liquidity requirements. 
(4) Controls. Reports on the internal and external audits of 
the branch or subsidiary in sufficient detail to permit determination of 
conformance to auditing guidelines. 
Such reports should cover (i) verifi-
cation and identification of entries on financial statements; (ii) income 
and expense accounts, including descriptions of significant charge-offs 
and recoveries; (iii) operation of dual-control procedures and other 
internal controls; (iv) conformance to head office guidelines on loans, 
deposits, foreign exchange activities, proper accounting.procedures, and 

dLOC^o*' 
-4-
discretionary authority of local management; (v) compliance with local 
laws and regulations; and (vi) compliance with applicable U.S. laws 
and regulations. 
By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, May 31, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

19(36 
Item No. 9 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
i 
5/31/73 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. M] 
PART 203--FOREIGN ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL BANKS 
Reserves Against Eurodollar Borrowings 
By order published in the Federal Register on May 25, 
1973 
(38 Federal Register 101), the Board amended section 204.5(c) of 
Regulation D and section 213.7 of Regulation M (effective June 21, 
1973) pursuant to its authority under sections 19 and 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461 and 601). The purpose of such 
amendments was to establish reserve requirements on member banks' 
Eurodollar borrowings that provide roughly parallel treatment as 
compared with large certificates of deposit and bank-related com-
mercial paper and to simplify,and improve the effectiveness of, such 
reserve requirements by gradually eliminating reserve-free bases 
which applied only to a small number of member banks. 
As proposed in its notice of proposed rule making published 
in the Federal Register on September 20, 1972 (37 Federal Register 19386), 
the Board's amendment of section 213.7(b) of Regulation M, relating to 
reserve requirements computed on the basis of credit extended by member 
banks' foreign branches to United States residents, eliminated a pro-
vision that excluded from the computation of such reserve requirements 

credit extended by a foreign branch which at no time during the 
computation period had credit outstanding to United States residents 
exceeding $5 million. 
However, after additional consideration of 
the comments received with regard to its earlier proposal, the Board 
has determined to further amend section 213.7(b) to exclude from the 
computation of reserve requirements thereunder credit extended (1) in 
the aggregate amount of $100,000 or less to any United States resident, 
or (2) by a foreign branch which at no time during the computation 
period had credit outstanding to United States residents exceeding 
$1 million. 
The present amendment is made pursuant to the Board's authority 
under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act. The purpcse of this amend-
ment is to minimise! the administrative burden on member banks in com-
plying with those reserve requirements relating to extensions of credit 
by their foreign branches to United States residents. 
This amendment, 
which will be effective on the same date as the earlier amendments 
published in the Federal Register on May 25, 1973, will remove from 
the computation of reserve requirements under section 217.3(b) of 
Regulation M credits extended that arc of such small amounts as are 
unlikely to be significant to the effectiveness of the Board's regula-
tions as a moderate restraint on overall increases in member banks' 
Eurodollar borrowings. 

„ 4 
L1968 
-2-
There was no notice and public participation with respect to 
that portion of the amendment relating to credit extended to any U.S. 
resident in the aggregate amount of $100,000 or less. The Board found 
that' such procedures were unnecessary and would serve no useful purpose 
since the rule relieves a restriction without adversely affecting any 
private interests; furthermore, such procedures would result in delay 
that would bo contrary to the public interest. 
Effective June 21, 1973, the Board has amended the proviso 
in section 213.7(b) of Regulation M to read as follows: 
§ 213.7 
Reserves against Foreien Branch Deposits. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(b) Credit ex fended t.o Unite d States residents. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
Provided, That tliis paragraph does not apply to credit, ex-
tended (1) in the aggregate amount of $100,000 or less to any United 
States resident, (2) by a foreign branch which at no time during the 
cgmput'ction period had credit outstanding to United States residents 
exceeding $1 million, (3) to enable the borrower to comply with the 
requirements^of the Office of Foreign Direct Investments, Department 
of Commerce, 
or (4) under binding commitments entered into before 
May 17, 1973. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 31, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
[SEAL] 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
-J~l ^hci branch may in good faith rely on the borrower's certification 
that the funds will be so used. 

1969 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S - 4 
Item No. 10 
• F T H E 
5/31/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. John J. Balles 
President 
Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco 
400 Sansome Street 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Mr. Balles: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Mr. Wesley G. DeVries as Senior Vice President 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco at the annual 
rate of $31,500 for the period June 1 through December 31, 
1973. This is the salary fixed by your Board cf Directors 
as reported in your letter of May 3, 1973. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
June 5, 1973 
^ 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 11 
5/31/73 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 31, 1973 
Mr. Peter Dixon 
British Embassy 
3100 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20008 
Dear Mr. Dixon: 
In response to your request of May 4, 1973, regarding 
the use of United States currency in the Turks and Caicos Islands, 
this is to inform you that neither the Board of Governors nor the 
Treasury Department has expressed any objection at this time to 
the use of Federal Reserve notes as the currency of any other 
country. 
Federal Reserve notes, which are the principal currency 
of the United States, are issued as obligations of the United 
States under authorization of the Federal Reserve Act of December 23, 
1913, as amended, and are known to circulate as legal tender in 
some other countries. 
Because the Federal Reserve System would not plan to 
assume any responsibility or expense in the provision of new cur-
rency or in the retirement of unfit currency in the Turks and 
Caicos Islands, it is suggested that a change in currency such 
as you propose should not be undertaken without consideration of 
arrangements and expenses entailed in obtaining a suitable 
quantity of replacement notes. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

, JL311 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 12 
5/31/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D O A R D 
Jane 1, 1973 
Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation 
350 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 24, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("MltlFC") to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of Manufacturers Hanover Asia 
Limited ("MHAL"), Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately HK$10,000,000 
(about- $1 ,996,000), provided $499,000 is invested within one year from 
the date of this letter. In this connection, approval is also granted 
for the purchase and holding of shares of MHAL in excess of 10 per cent 
of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of MHAL by MHIFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That MHIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in MHAL if MHAL at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if MHAL establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Hong Kong or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to MHIFC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
MHIFC will furnish the Board with such reports re-
garding the activities of MHAL as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by MHAL 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation IC 
in the same manner as if MHAL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

1372 
Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211„9(a), (b), and (c) 
of Regulation K. 
You have requested consent for MHAL to engage in the business 
of underwriting or dealing in securities0 
The Board's consent to such 
activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining the prior 
consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares of MHAL should 
MHAL acquire stock of individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 
or representing 25 per cent or more of the voting shares of any company, 
except in the case of underwriting operations covered by firm commitments 
from subunderwriters or other purchasers. 
With respect to trading in 
securities in which Corporations arc prohibited from investing by the 
provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact that MHAL 
will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size 
and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in. relation to demand, and 
dispose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 0 
However, they are to 
be reported as a separate class, together with the date of acquisition, 
on any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested by the Board. 
You have requested consent for MHAL to engage in the business 
of providing consulting services outside the United States. 
The Board's 
consent is granted subject to the condition that such services relating 
to the U.S. market will be confined to the initial entry of foreign 
companies into that market. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of MIAL. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit. Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

•f^LRF.^V 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1073 
Item No. 13 
5/31/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R S E S P D N D E N C 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 1, 1973 
American National Bank and 
Trust Company of Chicago 
La Salle Street at Washington 
Chicago, Illinois 
G0690 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System .rants 
C
h
^
n
r 
A m e r l C a n N a t i ° n a l B a n k a n d T r u s t Company of Chicago, 
Chicago 
Illinois, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Grand Cayman 
Cawan 
zT^z^tsuch 
b
-
h 
s u b j e " 
-
• i n „o u s S 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
i«hH 
f 
t h a t 
f t° ^ no contact with the local 
at least in parL, he supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
g o n e permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
types of facilities, and after due notice may he withdrawn or modified, 
0 0 the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(h), and (3) the fur-
ther condition that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
Will 00 maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
Board and its accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly 
informed of any modification in the branch's methods of operation, in-
branch? 
a n a e S 
a " y c o n t r a c t " n d s : r 
services are supplied to the 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before June 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall be 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 

_ 
1 9 7 4 
American National Bank and 
Trust Company of Chicago 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Grand Cayman. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D 0 
The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and con-
tinues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, nec-
essary purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
outside the United States „ 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of pay-
ments, the above consent is given on the condition that in the conduct 
of the branch's operations maximum reliance v?ill be placed on resources 
obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is understood that 
any investment required will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates/ 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1975 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 14 
5/31/73 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 1, 1973 
Mr. Stanford C. Stoddard, President 
Michigan National Corporation 
1700 Woodward Avenue 
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan 
48013 
Dear Mr. Stoddard: 
This is to inform you that the Board regards as acceptable 
Michigan National Corporation's commitment to the Federal Reserve 
System to sell the $10 million of equity within 24 months of formation 
of the holding company, that is, by the end of 1974. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

137<> 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MICHIGAN NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Amended Order 
By Order dated August 3, 1972 (37 F.R. 16134), the 
Board approved the. application of Michigan National Corporation, 
Lansing, Michigan, to become a bank holding company. 
The Statement 
accompanying that Order (1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 804) stated 
that the Board's approval was based on a capital improvement program 
submitted by Michigan National Corporation which included the 
sale of $10 million in equity securities by December 31, 1973. 
The 
Board's statement is hereby amended to state that the sale of $10 
million in equity securities is to take place bv December 3], 1974. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
May 31, 1973. 
/ / 
. , 
„ 
/ 
/ / 
V 
v / V T T / v / 
/ 
Tynan Smith 
/ Secretary of the Board 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
Sheehan, and Buchcr. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Mitchell. 

: 1377 
Item No. 15 
5/31/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SECURITY NEW YORK STATE CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
I 
Security New York State Corporation, Rochester, New York, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of First Trust 
Union Bank, Uellsville, New York ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, a regional upstate holding company and the^sixteenth 
largest bank holding company in the State, controls seven banks 
with 
aggregate deposits of approximately $583 million, representing 0.6 per 
cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State would not increase significantly upon 
consummation of the acquisition. 
Applicant seeks to acquire Bank (approximately $73 million 
in deposits), the largest of nine banks in the Olean banking market 
(approximated by the southern two-thirds of Allegany and Cattaraugus 
Counties), where it has eight offices; it also has an office in Canaseraga, 
iTAll banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through April 30, 1973. 

: 1 9 7 8 
! . 
' 
2/ 
in 
the adjoining Hornell banking market, 
where it ranks eighth of ten 
banking organizations in that market. Applicant has no banking facility 
in the Olean market, but its lead bank operates five offices and con-
trols 33 per cent of deposits in the Hornell market. Although there 
appears to be no significant competition between Applicant's bank in 
the Hornell market and Bank's operations in the Olean market, Bank's 
office in Canaseraga ($3 million in deposits, representing 2.6 per 
cent of Hornell market deposits) does compete with two branch offices 
of Applicant's lead bank (located 10 and 12 miles away, respectively). 
However, because of the small size of the Canaseraga office, the existing 
competition that would be eliminated by consummation of the proposal is 
c°nsidered to be nominal. In addition, in view of the market's low 
p0Pulation to banking office ratio, the limited prospects for economic 
§rowth in the area, and the somewhat isolated rural nature of the 
c°nimunity, there appears to be little likelihood for the development 
of any significant amount of future competition between these institutions. 
^ccordingly, the Board concludes that competitive considerations do 
n°t weigh heavily against approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Bank, and of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks, are regarded 
as satisfactory; and, upon consummation of the acquisition, Applicant 
Proposes to increase Bank's equity capital. Considerations relating to 
banking factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
27""— 
. ,. 
^ The Hornell banking market is approximated by the southern half of Living-
County, the Town of Naples in southern Ontario County, the western 
^ird of Steuben County, and the northeastern corner of Allegany County. 

_ 1379 
-3-
Applicant has stated that it intends to make full commercial banking 
and trust services available throughout the service area of Bank, and 
thus enable Bank to offer services competitive with those offered by 
the subsidiary banks of large holding companies situated in its market. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served favor approval of the application and outx^eigh the slightly 
adverse competitive aspects of the proposal. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 31, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Govenrors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

Item No. 16 
B D A R D G F G O V E R N • RB 
5/31/73 
O F 
T H E 
$ 
3 ' 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
205SI 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• 
} 
' o ltd* /^-V \ « 
• nil' '/ rr r r rr ? 'r- • 
'•f^Ht^V 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 31, 1973 
Mr. Barney Old Coyote 
Montana State University 
Bozeman, Montana 59 715 
Dear Mr. Old Coyote: 
I am writing in response to your request on behalf of 
the organizers of the American Indian National Bank ("AINB") 
for a statement by the Board that it is aware of the proposed 
organization of the ban]:, its ownership by the American Indian 
Vrust ("AIT") for a maximum period of one year while the shares 
of the bank are sold to Indians, and a proposed management 
contract between International Bank, Washington, D. C. ("IB") 
and AI MB. 
The Board has considered your April 30, 19 7 3 submission 
and your May 30, 1973 amendment thereto. On the basis of these 
submissions and information presently available to it, the 
Board is of the opinion that AIT would not constitute a bank 
h o l d i n g company. Furthermore, in view of the facts presented 
as well as the nature and circumstances of the proposal, the 
Board, will take no action on the basis of the proposal with 
respect to bringing a control proceeding against IB under the 
Bank Molding Company Act and the Board's regulations thereunder 
during the contract period if the relationship between AINB, 
IB, and the First National Bank of Washington differs in no 
material respect from the relationship described in the submissions 
and, further, if (1) no director, officer, or employee of AINB 
has present or past affiliation with either International Bank, 
financial General Bankshares, Inc., or any subsidiary of either, 
and (2) the contract provides that it may not be extended beyond 
the five-year period. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan 
Secretary 
Smith 
of the Board 

1981 
H i i t i l 
• W W - -
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 17 
5/31/73 
A D D R E S S orriCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 1, 1973 
Guy Martin, Esq. 
Martin, Moore, Thaler & Whitfieid 
1701 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. VI. 
Washington, D. C. 
20006 
Dear Mr. Martin: 
The Board has considered the request in your letter 
of December 27, 1.972, as counsel to International Bank ( XB ), 
Washington, D. C., addressed to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
N 
Chtcaeo, 
that the Board determine that IB has ceased to be 
a bank holding company for purposes of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act-("Act"). 
That letter states that IB became a bank holding 
comoany on December 31, 1970, upon the enactment of the 1970 
Amendments to the Act, by virtue of IB's ownership of all 
of the outstanding shares of Central National Bancshares, Inc. 
("CM"), Des Moines, Iowa, which, in turn, neld 61.8 per cent 
of the outstanding shares of Central National Bank and Trust 
Company ("Bank"), Des Moines, Iowa. 
As a basis for the requested determination, IB has 
taken certain action and made certain commitments as follows: 
1. IB has filed an irrevocable declaration that it 
will cease to be a bank holding company by December 31, 
1980. 
v 
2. As a result of an exchange offer by CNB to 
minority shareholders of Bank and a registered sec-
ondary offering of a portion of IB's holdings of CNB 
shares, J.B's interest in CNB was reduced to 41.3 per 
cent. 
3. IB has exchanged a sufficient number of its 
CNB shares for convertible non-voting s h a r e s to reduce 
its aggregate direct and indirect holdings of CNB 
voting shares to 4.5 per cent. 

Martin, Esq. 
- 2 -
4. 
IB states that the board of directors of CNB 
has adopted an irrevocable bylaw which provides that 
no non-voting share of CNB may be converted into a 
voting share if such conversion would cause IB to own 
more than 5 per cent of the voting shares of CNB; and 
a legend referring to this bylaw has been placed on 
the shares. 
5. With the exception of Mr. Charles Duchen, 
a director of an insurance underwriting subsidiary 
of IB, domiciled in Iowa and a long-time Iowa 
resident, no director, officer, employee, or agent 
of CNB or of any of its subsidiaries or affiliates 
(and no person affiliated with, or subject to 
influence by, any of the foregoing) acts or serves, 
nor will act. or serve in a similar capacity with IB 
or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates. 
IB rep-
resents, and has furnished evidence tending to show 
that Mr. Duchen is an independent director, and not 
under control by IB. 
6. IB has agreed that no director, officer, 
employee, or agent of IB or of any of its subsid-
iaries or affiliates (and no person affiliated witn, 
or subject to influence by, any of the foregoing) 
acts or serves, nor will act or serve in a similar 
capacity with CNB or any of its subsidiaries or 
affiliates (with the exception of Mr. Duchen), and 
that IB (and each of its subsidiaries and affili-
ates) and each director, officer, or other policy-
making employee of IB (or of any subsidiary or 
affiliate thereof), or any person affiliated with, 
or subject to influence by, any of the foregoing, 
will refrain from the exercise of any influence or 
control over CNB or any of its subsidiaries. 
IB 
has also committed each director, officer, em-
ployee, and 10 per cent shareholder of IB (or any 
of its subsidiaries or affiliates), or any combi-
nation of such persons (or affiliated persons) to 
refrain from ownership or control, directly or 
indirectly, of 25 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of CNB or any of its subsidiaries. 
7 . IV> has made a vr i t: ten commi tment that, 
by January 1, 1981, it will reduce its direct or 
indirect ownership of voting and non-voting shares 
of. CNB to less than 5 per cent by means of either 
or both: 

Guy Martin, Esq. 
-3-
(a) a distribution or distributions of CNB 
shares solely through an independent; under-
w r i t e r s ) to customers selected solely by such 
underwriter(s), but in no event would! any 
director, officer, employee or more ttihan 10 
per cent shareholder of IB (or of any subsid-
iary or affiliate of IB) or subsidiary or af-
filiated company (or any person affiliated 
with, or subject to influence by any © f the 
foregoing) purchase such shares; 
(b) a distribution pursuant to any/ tax 
relief legislation relating to bank folding 
companies that may be enacted, such distri-
bution to occur within ninety days a£ter Board 
certification, but not later than Jamuary 1, , 
. \ 
1981. 
The words person "subject to influence by" as used 
• in paragraphs numbered 5, 6 and 7 above are, umless otherwise 
determined by the Board, intended to refer to influence o, 
some substance or significance, and to include (but not to 
be limited to) persons related by blood or marriage, as well 
as persons indebted (other than on borrowings o n insurance 
policies). 
IB's written commitment described iLn paragraph 
7(a) above is acceptable to the Board only on (condition that 
the distribution described therein be made by public offering 
and that no purchaser, either directly or indirectly, may 
acquire at the sale shares aggregating more thrnn 2 per cent 
of the outstanding stock of CNB. 
On the basis of IB's written acceptance of the addi-
tional conditions set forth herein (to be forwarded to the Board 
as a commitment by IB) and on the basis of the facts, actions 
V and commitments described in your letter of December 27, 1J72, 
all of which are conditions to the Board's action herein, Lhe 
Board concludes that IB has relinquished control of CNB and 
Bank, 
Any material change in the aforestatued facts or 
commitments or the subsequent revelation of any material fact 
not disclosed in that letter may warrant a chamge in this 
^ 
conclusion. 
Finally, it should be emphasised that the Board s 

1 U 8 1 
Guy Martin, Esq. 
conclusion is limited to the relationship of EB to CNB and Bank 
and, in no way, is to be regarded as a determination that IB 
does not control Financial General Bankshares,. Inc., Washington 
. D. C., which matter is presently under consideration. 
Very truly yoiurs, 
cc: Central National Bancshares, Inc. 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
All conditions and commitments set tforth in this 
letter have been accepted by International Bank. 
Guy Martun 
Counsel to International Bank 
Dated: 
