MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 26, 1973 

67 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 26, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 11:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Layton, Director of Equal Employment 
Opportunity 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Guinter, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Feldberg of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York 
Staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial 
review. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the 
individual briefings. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

m 
678 
2/26/73 
-2-
Mr. Rippey then reported on pertinent legislative developments, 
after which the meeting continued with limited staff attendance. 
Stock market developments. Staff presented a review of recent 
stock market and margin credit developments. Related documentation 
included a memorandum dated February 20, 1973, from the Capital Markets 
Section, a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
testimony to be presented by Chairman Burns before the Senate Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee on February 27, 1973, on S. 929, 
a bill to amend the Par Value Modification Act of 1972. While there 
was general agreement on the overall tone and content of the draft, 
suggestions were made with respect to certain portions. It was understood 
that the statement would be edited in light of these suggestions and 
that it would be presented in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. 
(Note: A copy of the statement, as presented, has been placed in the 
Board's files.) 
Grandfather rights. Pursuant to the Board's action on December 5, 
1972, a determination was issued today regarding the status under the 
grandfather provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act of The Western 
and Southern Life Insurance Company, Cincinnati, Ohio. A copy of the 
determination is attached as Item No. 1. 
Congressional testimony. The Board discussed a draft of 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
2/26/73 
679 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect to 
nonbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amendments 
to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 1970" 
^ay continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, in non-
banking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on June 30, 
1968 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of activities 
carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company or subsidiary, 
Pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on or before June 30, 
3-968, of another company engaged in such activities at the time of the 
acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in since June 30, 1968 
(°r such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
Privileges if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
determines that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentration 
resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, 
unsound banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a 
bank with assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
the Board is required to make such a determination within a two year period. 
4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE WESTERN AND SOUTHERN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Determination Regarding "Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 

Notice of the Board's proposed review of the grandfather 
Privileges of The Western and Southern Life Insurance Company, Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, and an opportunity for interested persons to submit 
comments and views or request a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414). 
The time for filing comments, views, and requests has expired, and all 
those received have been considered by the Board in light of the factors 
set forth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following 
findings. The Western and Southern Life Insurance Company, Cincinnati, 
Ohio ("Registrant"), became a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, 
as a result of the 1970 Amendments to the Act, by virtue of Registrant's 
ownership of substantially all the voting shares of The Southern Ohio Bank 
Cincinnati, Ohio ("Bank") (assets of about $110 million, as of December 31 
1^70). Bank, control of which was acquired by Registrant in April, 1968, 
had total deposits of approximately $115 million as of December 31, 1971, 
^presenting under 5 per cent of the total deposits of the 37 commercial 
banks in the Cincinnati banking market. Bank's management, financial 
condition, and prospects are regarded as good, and the Board has found no 
evidence of unsound banking practices. 
Registrant, a mutual life insurance company since 1948 (con-
Verted from a stock company organized in 1888), is engaged in investing 
and in the business of selling, underwriting and issuing individual and 
Sroup life insurance, accident and health policies as well as selling 
individual annuity contracts and apparently has engaged in such activities 
continuously since before June 30, 1968. In addition, Registrant has 
four other direct subsidiaries and one indirect subsidiary, all of which 

681 
-3-
are engaged in nonbanking activities. The Waslic Management Corporation, 
Cincinnati, Ohio (formed in July, 1946), manages apartment buildings and 
commercial buildings owned by Registrant in Hamilton County, Ohio. 
Ronado Management Company, Los Angeles, California (formed in January 
1^69), manages apartment buildings and commercial buildings owned by 
Registrant in Los Angeles, California. WestAd, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio 
(formed in May, 1970), prepares copy or scripts and arranges for publica-
tion or broadcasting of advertising for Registrant and two of its sub-
sidiaries. Eagle Savings Association, Cincinnati, Ohio (acquired in April, 
1970), with savings capital of approximately $213 million, as of Decem-
ber 31, 1971, is the largest savings and loan association in Hamilton 
County as well as in the Cincinnati banking market; and controls over 10 
Per cent of savings capital at savings and loan associations headquartered 
in the County and close to 9 per cent of total savings capital in the 
Cincinnati market area. Eagle Investment Co., Cincinnati, Ohio (formed in 
^arch, 1971), is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eagle Savings Association 
and is engaged in the activity of purchasing and developing real estate 
sale to others as permitted under Ohio law. 
It appears that the direct activities of Registrant and the 
activities of The Waslic Management Corporation are eligible for grand-
father benefits. 
To the extent that Waslic Management Company furnishes 
services solelv to the bank holding company, such activity appears to be 
1/ 
e*empt, under § 4(c)(1)(C) 
of the Act, from the general prohibitions 
i^Section 4(c)(1)(C) of the Act enables a holding company to acquire 
Without) Board approval) "(1) shares of any company engaged. . .solely 
in. . .(C) furnishing services to or performing services for such bank 
Elding company or its banking subsidiaries; 
. . . . 

-4-
against nonbanking activities. Registrant acquired its interests in 
its other nonbanking subsidiaries after June 30, 1968; consequently, 
such subsidiaries seem not to be entitled to grandfather authority for 
retention beyond December 31, 1980. However, to the extent that Ronado 
Management Company or West Ad is engaged in performing services for Regis-
trant or its banking subsidiary, such activities would appear to warrant 
exemption under § 4(c)(1)(C) of the Act. Eagle Savings Association does 
lot appear to qualify for grandfather benefits nor for exemption under 
any provision of the Act; thus, Registrant must reduce its interest 
in such subsidiary to 5 per cent or less of the outstanding shares of 
such subsidiary by December 31, 1980, unless, in the interim, the Regis-
trant receives Board approval for retention (or ceases to be a bank hold-
ing company). 
In addition, Registrant acquired its interest in Eagle 
Investment Company after December 31, 1970, and without Board approval 
(which is required under the Act). On this basis, Registrant should take 
Prompt steps to divest itself of its interest in that company unless 
^agistrant can demonstrate that its interest in Eagle Investment Company 
1/ 
l s lawful under the Act. 
3./ Registrant (in its Registration Statement filed with the Board) indicates 
that its interest in Eagle Investment Company is permissible under 5 4(c)(11) 
the Act. To the extent the activities engaged in by Eagle Investment 
V ere performed by Registrant on or before June 30, 1968, and continuously 
hereafter until taken over by a de novo corporation (through the formation 
^ Eagle Investment Company), such activities would be entitled to grand-
father benefits and, under the provisions of § 4(c)(11) of the Act, Regis-
trant would have the authority to hold the shares of Eagle Investment 
c°mpany. Not enough information is available now to the Board to deter-
mine the validity of Registrant's claim with respect to the interest in 
agle Investment Company. 

683 
The total resources of banks, savings and loan associations, 
and insurance companies in the Cincinnati banking market as of Decem-
ber 31, 1971 was over $8 billion. Registrant, which operates some 400 
offices 
In 30 States, had total assets of slightly less than $2 
billion on this date or about 24 per cent of the total. 
Bank 
and Eagle Savings Association represent an additional 1.4 per cent and 
2.6 per cent, respectively. 
However, because of the broad geographic 
area over which Registrant's interests are spread, the above 24 per cent 
figure substantially overstates Registrant's resources available to the 
Cincinnati market. The record shows that 36 commercial banks, 195 savings 
and loan associations and 23 mortgage companies currently operate in the 
Cincinnati market and compete with Registrant. 
Furthermore, Bank does 
not appear to be of sufficient size to add measurably to Registrant's 
influence in the market; there is no evidence that Registrant has used 
Bank to finance other ventures of Registrant; Registrant has not taken 
any dividends from Bank; and Registrant must either divest itself of 
Eagle Savings Association (or cease to be a bank holding company) by 
December 31, 1980, or secure Board approval to retain the S&L beyond that 
date. 
On the basis of the foregoing and all the facts before the 
B°ard, it appears that the volume, scope, and nature of the activities 
Registrant and its grandfathered subsidiaries do not demonstrate an 
Undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, con-
flicts of interest nor unsound banking practices. 

684 
-6-
There appears to be 110 reason to require Registrant to terminate 
its grandfathered interests. 
It is the Board's judgment that, at this 
time, termination of the grandfather privileges of Registrant is not 
necessary in order to prevent an undue concentration of resources, de-
creased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking 
practices. However, this determination is not authority to enter into 
any activity that was not engaged in on June 30, 1968 and continuously 
thereafter, or any activity that is not the subject of this determination. 
Nor is this determination authority for Registrant to acquire any additional 
real property or any additional shares of any company if the Registrants 
holdings in said company will exceed 5 per cent of the outstanding voting 
shares of such company. 
A significant alteration in the nature or extension of Regis-
trant's activities or a change in location thereof (significantly different 
from any described in this determination) will be cause for a re-evaluation 
the Board of Registrant's activities under the provisions of § 4(a)(2) 
of the Act, that 
is, whenever the alteration or change is such that the 
Board finds that a termination of the grandfather privileges is necessary 
to prevent an undue concentration of resources or any of the other evils 
at which the Act is directed. No merger, consolidation, acquisition of 
assets other than in the ordinary course of business, nor acquisition of 
any interest in a going concern, to which the Registrant or any nonbank 
subsidiary thereof is a party, may be consummated without prior approval 
of the Board. 
Further, the provision of any credit, property, or service 

by the Registrant or any subsidiary thereof shall not be subject to 
any condition which, if imposed by a bank, would constitute an unlaw-
ful tie-in arrangement under S 106 of the Bank Holding Company Act 
Amendments of 1970. 
The determination herein does not preclude a later review by 
the Board of Registrant's nonbank activities and a future determination 
by the Board in favor of termination of grandfather benefits of Registrant. 
The determination herein is subject to the Board's authority to require 
modification or termination of the activities of Registrant or any of 
its nonbanking subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure com-
pliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
regulation and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof. 
1/ 
By determination of the Board of Governors, 
effective February 26, 
1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
Brimmer, Shaehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
