MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 1, 1973 

3778 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 1, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 11:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1J 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 1J 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3773 
10/1/73 
-2-
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed legislative developments of interest 
to the System. 
All staff members then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, 
Altmann, Broida, Melnicoff, Grimwood, Partee, Cardon, Coyne, O'Brien, 
O'Connell, Axilrod, Keir, Reynolds, Pizer, and other staff of the 
Federal Open Market Committee. 
Discussion of monetary policy. There followed a general 
discussion of current conditions in the financial markets and the 
recent weakness in the monetary aggregates, and of the role of monetary 
policy under existing circumstances. At the conclusion of the discussion, 
it was understood that a telephone conference meeting of the Federal 
Open Market Committee would be scheduled tomorrow for the purpose of 
considering supplementary instructions to the System Account Manager 
in the light of recent developments. 
Messrs. Altmann, Broida, Grimwood, Cardon, and Reynolds and 
other supporting FOMC staff then withdrew, and a number of staff members 
who had been present at the beginning of the meeting reentered the room. 

3780 
10/1/73 
-3-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously accepted for processing 
applications of Alpha Agency, Inc., and Pierce Agency, Inc., both of 
Aztec, New Mexico, to retain shares of Citizens Bank, Farmington, New 
Mexico, pursuant to provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act, and 
author ized publication of notice of this action in the Federal Register. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the application 
of National Central Bank, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, to establish a branch 
in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, British West Indies. A 
copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved. Governor Brimmer dissenting, the application 
of The Fidelity National Bank, Lynchburg, Virginia, to establish a 
branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, British West Indies. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Philadelphia 
National Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to acquire shares of 
Congress Credit Corporation, New York, New York. A copy of the letter 
sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the application 
of First Virginia Bank, Falls Church, Virginia, to establish a branch 
in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, British West Indies. A 
copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First & Merchants 
Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, to engage in the underwriting of credit 

3781 
10/1/73 
-4-
life and credit accident and health insurance through a de novo subsidiary, 
Security-Atlantic Life Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona. The Board 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of 
which is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board authorized issuance, with a minor change in wording, 
of orders and a letter reflecting its decisions, on August 31, 1973, 
concerning applications by First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, 
Texas. On that date, the Board denied applicant's request for permission 
to acquire shares of the successor by merger to University State Bank, 
Houston, Texas; approved the request to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to First State Bank of Bellaire, Bellaire, Texas; approved 
the merger of Rice Avenue State Bank, also of Bellaire, with First 
State Bank of Bellaire; and approved the application of Rice Avenue 
State Bank for membership in the Federal Reserve System. Copies of 
the orders are attached under Item No. 7, along with a copy of Governor 
Sheehan's dissenting statement with respect to the University State 
Bank application. A copy of the letter sent to Rice Avenue State Bank 
approving its application for membership is attached as Item No. 8. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Proposed legislation re disclosure of financial information. 
With a memorandum of September 20, 1973, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Legal Division submitted a proposed letter in 
response to a request by Congressman St Germain for the Board's comments 
H.R. 9424, a bill that would govern disclosure of certain financial 
information by financial institutions to Government agencies. 

:v?8 
10/1/73 
- 5 -
Desiring further information from the staff and the other 
regulatory agencies, the Board deferred action on this request for 
comment. 
Statement on proposed GAP audit of Federal Reserve System. 
Governor Mitchell was scheduled to appear on October 3, 1973, before 
the House Committee on Banking and Currency concerning H.R. 10265, a 
bill that would amend the Federal Reserve Act to provide for audits 
of the Federal Reserve System by the General Accounting Office. A 
draft statement had been distributed, and discussion of the draft 
included a number of suggestions regarding approach and emphasis. At 
the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that the statement 
would be revised in the light of comments made and would be presented 
in a final form satisfactory to Governor Mitchell. A copy of the 
statement as presented before the Committee has been placed in the 
Board's files. 
Financial General Bankshares. At its meeting on September 27, 
1973, the Board agreed to send a letter to Financial General Bankshares, 
Inc., Washington, D. C., expressing its concern over the company's 
apparent contravention of the Board's order of August 31, 1973, that 
conditionally authorized the acquisition of additional shares of 
Clarendon Bank & Trust, Fairfax County, Virginia, by Financial General. 
For today's meeting, the Legal Division submitted a proposed letter 
to be sent to Financial General. 

3783 
10/1/73 
- 6 -
The Board unanimously approved the letter, a copy of which 
is attached as Item No. 9. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation Y. At its meeting on September 27, 
1973, the Board had requested the staff to make further revisions in a 
draft notice for publication concerning a proposed amendment to Regu-
lation Y, Bank Holding Companies, that would prescribe limitations on 
deposit-taking activities and other functions of nonbank trust company 
affiliates of bank holding companies. With a memorandum of September 28, 
1973, the Legal Division submitted a revised draft notice, and in a memo-
randum of September 28, 1973, Mr. Solomon provided further clarification. 
The Board unanimously approved for publication for additional 
comment the proposed notice, with minor changes in wording. A copy 
of the notice is attached under Item No. 10, along with the related 
press release. 
First Banc Group of Ohio. In a memorandum of July 20, 1973, 
the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended approval of the application of First Banc 
Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of First Trust 
Company of Ohio, National Association, also of Columbus, a proposed 
new bank. 
The Board unanimously approved the application, with the 
understanding that documentation to implement this decision would be 
prepared for the Board's consideration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3784 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
10/1/73 
ALP1IA AGENCY, INC. AND PIERCE AGENCY, INC. 
Retention of Additional Voting Shares of Bank 
Alpha Agency, Inc. and Pierce Agency, Inc., both of Aztec, 
New Mexico have applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to retain an 
additional 14.56 per cent of the voting shares of Citizens Bank, 
Farmington, New Mexico, which shares were acquired *by purchase on 
March 1, 1971. The factors that are considered in acting on the 
application are set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
The application may be inspected at the office of the Board 
of Governors or at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. Any person 
wishing to comment on the application should submit his views in writing 
to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than October 27, 1973. 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, October 1, 
1973. 
. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
JL'heodore E. Allison 
v 
, * 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
\ (SEAL) 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3785 
Item No. 2 
10/1/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1973 
National Central Bank 
Lancaster, Pennsylvania 17604 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to National Central Bank, Lancaster, 
Pennsylvania, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand 
Cayman, Cayman Islands, and to operate and maintain such branch 
subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business 
and not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in 
the United States. It is also understood that there is to be no 
contact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
of these types of activities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
or modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against 
deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without 
benefit of the exclusions in provisos (1) and (2) of Section 213.7(b), 
and (3) the further condition that adequate information covering the 
branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and will 
be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. The 
Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's 
methods of operation, including changes in any contract under which 
services are supplied to the branch. 

3786 
National Central Bank 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before October 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in location 
of the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of 
the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any 
limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the 
reserve requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these 
exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to 
compete abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has 
long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System 
to discourage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches 
of United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a 
definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international 
transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance 
of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3787 
Item No. 
2 
10/1/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C 0 R R E S P O N D E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1973 
The Fidelity National Bank 
828 Main Street 
Lynchburg, Virginia 
24504 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Fidelity National Bank, Lynchburg, 
Virginia, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, 
Cayman Islands, and to operate and maintain such branch subject 
to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract 
by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of 
these types of activities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against 
deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without 
benefit of the exclusions in provisos (1) and (2) of Section 213.7(b), 
and (3) the further condition that adequate information covering the 
branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and will be 
available to the Board and its accredited representatives. The Board 
should be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods 
of operation, including changes in any contract under which services 
are supplied to the branch. 

3788 
The Fidelity National Bank 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
busines on or before October 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limita-
tions on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of the United States banks to compete 
abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been 
and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a 
definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international 
transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the bal-
ance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in 
the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed 
on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3789 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
10/1/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1973 
Philadelphia National 
Corporation 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 5, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
as amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all 
of the shares of Congress Credit Corporation ("CCC"), New York, 
New York, at a cost of approximately $1,250,000, provided such 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under 
Section 4(c)(13), CCC shall confine its activities to international 
or foreign banking and other international or foreign financial 
operations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3730 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
10/1/73 
• of COv/.' . 
O F 
T H E 
f*4L RtS^r 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1973 
First Virginia Bank 
One First Virginia Plaza 
6400 Arlington Boulevard 
Falls Church, Virginia 
22046 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to First Virginia Bank, Falls Church, Virginia, pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve Act to 
establish a branch in Georgetown, Cayman Islands, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Sections and of 
Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business arid not 
as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United 
States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact with 
the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and 
bookkeeping may, at least in part be supplied under contract by 
another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of 
these types of activities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against 
deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without 
benefit of the exclusion in provisos (1) and (2) of Section 213.7(b), 
and (3) the further condition that adequate information covering the 
branch's operations Will be maintained at your head office and will 
be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. The ^ 
Board should be promptly informed of any modifications in the branch s 
methods of operation, including changes in any contract under which 
services are supplied to the branch. 

3731 
-2 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before October 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in location 
of the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limita-
tions on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the 
reserve requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these 
exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to 
compete abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has 
long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System 
to discourage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches 
of United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or 
international transaction outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for 
purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the 
balance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that 
m the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be 
Placed on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will be made within the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and 
its affiliates. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 2 
10/1/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST & MERCHANTS CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Security-Atlantic 
Life Insurance Company 
First & Merchants Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act 
and §225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the 
voting shares of Security-Atlantic Life Insurance Company, Phoenix, 
Arizona ("Company"), a company that will engage de novo in the under-
siting, as reinsurer, of credit life and credit accident and health 
insurance in connection with extensions of credit by Applicant'slending 
subsidiaries. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P < 2 r S O n s t o sut>mit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
H a S b e e n d u ly Published (38 Federal Register 18590). The time for filing 
mments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Effective December 11, 1972, the Board amended § 225.4 of 
Sulation Y to add the activity of "acting as underwriter for credit 
life 
and credit accident and health insurance which is directly related 
extensions of credit by the bank holding company system" to the list 
f activities the Board has determined to be closely related to banking 
( U 
225.4(a) (10)) . 

379 
- 2 -
1/ 
Applicant controls three 
banks with total deposits of $1.0 
billion, representing 9.4 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
in the State, and is the third largest banking organization in Virginia. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1972 and reflect bank holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
June j0, 1973.) Applicant, through its nonbanking subsidiaries, engages 
in the activities of origination, sale and servicing of first 
mortgage loans, second mortgage lending, construction financing, advisor 
to a real estate investment trust, and agent for the sale of credit life 
Q n d disability insurance and physical damage insurance, all in connection 
with extensions of credit by Applicant's lending subsidiaries. 
Company will be formed as an Arizona insurance corporation 
with initial capital of $300,000. As Company will be qualified 
to underwrite insurance directly only in Arizona, its activities will 
b e l i m ited to acting as reinsurer of credit life and credit accident 
and health insurance policies made available in connection with extensions 
of 
.2/ 
credit by Applicant's subsidiaries. 
Such insurance will be directly 
A/ In addition, Applicant has recently received Board approval to 
cquire The Peoples Bank of Stafford, Falmouth, Virginia (deposits 
of 
m i l l i o n ) > Mountain Trust Bank, Roanoke, Virginia (deposits 
* $83.4 million)t ancj First & Merchants National Bank of Tidewater, 
nesapeake, Virginia, a proposed new bank, by Orders dated July 3, 
* and 27, 1973,respectively. 
O i 
t' Applicant has applied to the Board for permission to offer credit 
, 
e insurance in four States and credit accident and health insurance 
in only one State. 

3791 
-3-
underwritten by an insurer or insurers qualified to underwrite in 
the States where Applicant's subsidiaries do business and will thereafter 
be assigned or ceded to Company under a reinsurance agreement. 
Credit life and credit accident and health insurance is 
generally made available by banks and other lenders and such insurance 
is designed to assure repayment of a loan in the event of death or 
disability of the borrower. In connection with its addition of credit 
life underwriting to the list of permissible activities for bank holding 
companies, the Board stated: 
"To assure that engaging in the underwriting of credit 
life and credit accident and health insurance can reasonably be 
expected to be tn the public interest, the Board will only approve 
applications in which an applicant demonstrates that approval will 
benefit the consumer or result in other public benefits. Normally 
such a showing would be made by a projected reduction in rates 
or increase in policy benefits due to bank holding company performance 
of this service." 
Applicant has stated that the proposed reinsurance subsidiary (Company) 
the direct underwriter, which issues the credit life and credit 
accident and health insurance policies made available by its lending 
subsidiaries, will reduce the rates charged for credit life insurance 
b y 1 0- 3 per cent in Virginia, by 9.6 per cent in Georgia, by 5.7 per 
cent in 
Maryland and by 4.6 per cent in Ohio. In addition, Applicant 
h a s stated that it will reduce the rates charged for credit accident 
a n d health insurance by 5 per cent in Virginia and will also make 
improvements in policy coverage. The Board believes that the reduced 

3795 
-4-
cost of such insurance coverage is procompetitive and is in the public 
interest. The Board concludes that such public benefits outweigh any 
possible adverse effects of approval of the application. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
the record, the Beard has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under Section 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
determination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4 (c) 
°f Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
o r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
th 
e provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- 
effective October 2, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
'"Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
I T v S l ^ for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman 
Surns. 

_ 3796 
Item No. 7 
10/1/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST INTERNATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of the successor by 
merger to University State Bank ("Bank"), Houston, Texas. The bank 
into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means 
to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
j-L 
proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization is 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d n o n e h a s been timely received. The Board has considered the 
aPplication in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
<12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Texas, 
controls eleven banks with total deposits of $2.5 billion, which 
rePresents 7.2 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1972.) Approval of this 
aPPlication would not significantly increase Applicant's share of State-
W i d e deposits. 
Bank ($44.8 million in deposits) is the twenty-sixth largest 
banks in the Houston banking market (approximated by the Houston 
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area), and controls 0.6 per cent of 

3797 
- 2 -
deposits in commercial banks in that market. Applicant's nearest 
subsidiary, Houston-Citizens Bank & Trust Company ("H-C") (deposits 
of $208 million), is located in the Houston Banking market, 4.6 miles 
from Bank. H-C is the fifth largest bank in Bank's service area. All of 
Bank's accounts derive from the service area of H-C which, although 
primarily a wholesale bank, offers a full range of retail or individual 
banking services. Forty-three per cent of H-C's time deposit accounts, 
32 per cent of H-C's commercial loan accounts, 23 per cent of H-C's 
savings deposit accounts, and 12 per cent of H-C's demand deposit 
accounts, derive from Bank's service area. 
By Order of today's date, the Board has granted its prior 
approval of Applicant's proposed acquisition of First State Bank of 
Bellaire ("Bellaire Bank"), Bellaire, Texas, which is also located 
in the Houston banking market. Bellaire Bank, but for its affiliation 
with Bank since 1950, would be a direct competitor of Bank. Located 
only four miles apart, the two banks have over-lapping service areas, 
and both are primarily engaged in the provision of retail banking 
services. The existing affiliation between Bank and Bellaire Bank is 
not such that it may be expected to continue for a long period of time, 
absent approval of both applications by the Board. Therefore, approval 
of both applications would have the effect of forestalling eventual 
dissolution of the affiliation and thereby adversly affect the development 
of future competition between Bank and Bellaire Bank. Denial of the 
instant application on the other hand would preserve both existing 
and future competition between Bank and Bellaire Bank. By accelerating 
the dissolution of the affiliation between Bank and Bellaire Bank, and 

3738 
-3-
thereby the development of competition between the two banks, denial of 
the instant application may actually enhance competition. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
subsidiaries, and Bank are satisfactory, and future prospects appear 
favorable. There is no evidence in the record to suggest that the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served are not presently 
being served. Although Bank's ability to provide new services might 
be enhanced by access to Applicant's financial and managerial resources, 
the probable effect of the proposed acquisition in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served does not clearly outweigh the 
anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction. It is the Board's 
judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction would not be in 
the public interest, and that the application should be denied. 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for 
the reasons summarized above. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors 
effective October 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Bucher and Holland. Voting against this action: Governors Daane and 
Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

3799 
DISSENTING STATEMENT 
OF 
GOVERNOR SHEEHAN 
I dissent from the Board's denial of the subject application. 
Any adverse effect upon competition that may derive from consummation 
of the proposed transaction is hardly significant where, as here, 
there are 152 banks competing in the Houston SM5A market, and 
Applicant, as a result of the transaction, would hold 4.2 per cent 
o f the total deposits in the market. The very slight foreclosure of 
competition resulting from approval of this application would be 
clearly outweighed by the procompetitive effect the acquisition 
would have by strengthening Applicant's ability to compete against 
the two leading banking organizations in the market which respectively 
hold approximately 20 per cent and 17 per cent of market deposits. 
I would approve the application. 
October 1, 1973 

3800 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST INTERNATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire the successor by merger to First State Bank of 
Bellaire, Bellaire, Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be 
merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisi-
tion of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
°f shares of the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed 
acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the appli-
cation in light of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 11 banks with aggregate deposits of $2.5 
billion, representing 7.2 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks 
i n T e x a s A c q u i s i t i o n of Bank (deposits of $68.8 million) would not 
i/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and represent bank 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
through July 31, 1973. 

- 2 -
3801 
significantly increase the concentration of banking resources in the 
State. 
Bank is located in the Houston banking market where it ranks 
as the eighteenth largest bank, with less than 1 per cent of market 
2/ 
deposits.""" 
Applicant presently has a banking subsidiary in this market, 
Houston Citizens Bank & Trust Company, which is the fifth largest bank 
in the market, with about 3 per cent of market deposits. Though acqui-
sition of Bank by Applicant would give it approximately A per cent of 
market deposits, this would not be a significant market share in the 
context of the Houston banking market. Applicant, after acquisition 
of Bank, would still have less than half of the market share controlled 
by the third ranking organization in the Houston market. Numerous 
entry points for banking organizations wishing to enter this market 
would remain after approval of the acquisition of Bank by Applicant. 
Additionally, approval of this acquisition may enable Applicant to pro-
vide more vigorous competition for the three largest banking organizations 
which between themselves control almost 50 per cent of market deposits. 
Moreover, consummation of this transaction coupled with denial of the 
aPPlication by Applicant to acquire University State Bank, Houston, Texas, 
a s reflected in our Order of this date, would weaken the existing-rela-
tionship between University State Bank and Bank. These two banks are 
°nly four miles apart and there is a large overlap of service area 
y 
The Houston banking marlcet is the relevant banking market and is 
aPproximated by the Houston SMSA. 

; 3802 
-3-
between the two. Termination of the existing relationship between 
University State Bank and Bank should have a positive effect on compe-
tition. The Board concludes that consummation of the transaction would 
not have a significantly adverse effect on existing or potential compe-
tition. 
The financial condition, managerial resources and prospects 
o f Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are generally satisfactory, 
Particularly in light of Applicant's commitment to increase the capital 
of Bank. This factor lends support for approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served are consistent with approval of the application. It is 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction would 
b e in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
thn 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
<a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
s Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
o r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective October 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
fj i n i
V o t i n8 for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
m e*, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

. 3803 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
RICE AVENUE STATE BANK 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
Rice Avenue State Bank, Bellaire, Texas, a proposed State member 
bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied for the Board's approval 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) of the merger of that 
bank with First State Bank of Bellaire, Bellaire, Texas, under the name of 
pirst State Bank of Bellaire. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in form 
approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has requested 
reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
o f the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Board 
has considered the application in light of the factors set forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating to the appli-
cation of First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, to acquire 
the successor by merger to First State Bank of Bellaire, provided that said 
merger shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
the date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Q y , J e r , unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
A/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
® m er, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 

3804 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m No. 
. . ^ b V c o ^ . . 
d f t h f . 
10/1/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Cl>> 
9 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
'•f^Rtsf; 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 1, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Rice Avenue State Bank 
Bellaire, Texas 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Rice Avenue State Bank, Bellaire, 
Texas, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, subject 
to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that Rice Avenue State Bank will not conduct a banking business with the 
public prior to its merger with First State Bank of Bellaire, Bellaire, 
Texas. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

3805 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution should be transmitted 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

" V ' y j ^ 
-3806 
B D A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
I t e m 
N o ' 
9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/1/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Ij j|jj 
A O O R C B 9 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P Q N D E N C l 
T
D 
™
C 
B O A R D 
W R E S ^ V 
. 
• • » • • 
. 
October 2, 1973 
Financial General Bankshares, Inc. 
1701 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W, 
y 
Washington, D. C. 20006 
Attention: General George Olmsted 
Chairman of the Board 
Gentlemen: 
! 
. \ 
On August 31, 1973, the Board of Governors granted-condi-
tional approval of the application of Financial General Bankshares, 
Inc., filed pursuant to Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, as amended, for the Board's prior approval to acquire 
17,000 or more, but not to exceed 80 per cent, of the voting shares 
of Clarendon Bank & Trust, Fairfax County, Virginia ("Clarendon 
Bank"). The Board's August 31 Order read, in part, " . . . the appli-
cation is approved . . . upon the condition that no shares of 
[Clarendon] Bank may be acquired under this Order prior to the date-
on which the Board concludes that International Bank does not control 
nor exercise a controlling influence over Applicant. The transaction 
shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day follow-
ing the effective date of this Order. . . 
It has been represented to the Board's staff that a letter 
of August 24, 1973, was directed by Financial General to the share-
holders of Clarendon Bank inviting a tender of shares of Clarendon 
Bank and that, in fact, Financial General has purchased such shares 
for cash on or before September 27, 1973. In view of the fact that 
the Board has not been furnished evidence to satisfy it that the 
Board's Order with respect to termination of control of Financial 
General by International Bank has been complied with, and the 
further fact that Financial General apparently has been purchasing 
shares of Clarendon Bank prior to the 30-day stay designated in 
§ H ( b ) of the Act and in the Board's August 31 Order, the Board^is 
°f the view that serious question exists as to Financial General s 
compliance with the Board's Order of August 31 and the provisions 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. 

Financial General Bankshares, Inc. 
-2-
I . 
i 
A statement (appearing in the September 23 edition of The 
Washington Post) has been attributed to the Chairman of Financial 
General's Board of Directors, General George Olmsted, to the effect 
that International Bank does not control Financial General, that the 
present relationship between International Bank and Financial General 
was created to meet previous rulings of the Board, and that Inter-
national Bank does not plan to do anything [presumably with respect 
to further divestiture action] until the Board make^a further deci-
sion in the case. 
Members of the Board's legal staff have met on several occa-
sions with Mr. Guy Martin (of the law firm of Martin, Moore, Thaler & 
Whitfield) who was at the time of such meetings counsel for both Inter-
national Bank and Financial General. The Board believes that Mr. 
Martin was given clear and unmistakable expression of the Board's 
current position that available evidence reflects the continued con-
trol of Financial General by International Bank. Further, in regard 
to the Board's position with respect to continued control by Inter-
national Bank of Financial General, the Board, by letter of September 
5, 1973, addressed to Mr. Martin, who then represented International 
Bank, announced the Board's determination that on the basis of the 
actions, commitments and understandings set forth in that letter, and 
in documents referred to therein, International Bank had relinquished 
control of Central National Bankshares, Inc., and of Central National 
Bank & Trust Company, both of Des Moines, Iowa, but that the Board's 
conclusion with respect to International Bank's relationship to 
Central National Bankshares, Inc. and Central National Bank & Trust 
Company 11. . . is in no way to be regarded as a determination that 
International Bank does not control Financial General Bankshares, 
I nc 
" 
On the basis of the foregoing facts and occurrences, and in 
view of the understanding reached between Mr. Martin and members of 
the Board's legal staff that further appropriate representations with 
respect to steps that might be taken to effect satisfactory compliance 
with the requirement for divestiture of Financial General would be sub 
fitted to the Board staff, the Board awaits the submission of such 
further appropriate representations. 
The Board's records reflect the appearance, commencing on 
August 13, 1973, of F. Joseph Donohue, Esq. (Donohue, Kaufman, Shaw 
& Kligman) as newly engaged counsel for Financial General. The Board 
has no reason to assume that the earlier commitments and understand-
ings made by and reached with Mr. Martin are now to be disregarded, 
nor could such a conclusion be reached in light of the Board's stat-
utory responsibilities under the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended, 
and the Board's Regulation Y. Indeed, this matter was explored with 
Mr. Donohue and Mr. William L. Cobb, President of Financial General, 

Financial General Bankshares, Inc. 
-3-
i 
k 3808 
during their August 13 visit to the Board's office; and no disavowal 
°f prior commitments was made. 
The Board will appreciate prompt advice from Financial 
General as to the actions taken or to be taken, looking to compliance 
with the Board's August 31 Order incident to the proposed Clarendon 
Bank acquisition. In the latter regard, we request an explanation 
°f any acquisition of stock of that Bank made prior to the permissible 
date, as well as advice with respect to actions or pYoposed actions 
•by International Bank and Financial General to effect a divestiture 
°f control by International Bank of Financial General. 
In view of the Board's position that failure of International 
Bank to effect divestiture of control over Financial General constitutes 
a legal impediment to additional bank acquisitions by Financial General, 
further processing by the Board of any application by Financial General 
pending before the Board under § 3 of the Act awaits your submission 
°f an effective divestiture program. 
Your prompt attention to the matter of these requests is 
' urged. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
C c : 
Guy Martin, Esq. 
Martin, Moore, Thaler & Whitfield 
1701 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20006 
\ 
F. Joseph Donohue, Esq. 
Donohue, Kaufmann, Shaw & Kligman 
Judiciary Square 
503 D Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20001 
\ 

'•f^LRt^V 
Item No. 10 
10/1/73 
por immediate release 
October 3, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today proposed 
a revised amendment to its Regulation Y -- regulating bank holding companies -
regarding trust company subsidiaries. 
As revised, the proposed amendment would broaden the scope of 
Permissible deposit-taking by trust company subsidiaries beyond what was 
first suggested, and would narrow the scope of incidental lending activites 
Permissible for such companies. 
The revisions proposed today reflect the Board's consideration of 
comment received on proposals to amend Regulation Y, published July 3, to 
clarify the deposit-taking and lending and investment activities of trust 
company subsidiaries of bank holding companies. 
The revised proposal would: 
— Add to the deposit-taking permitted to trust companies deposits 
Rising from custodial and managi'ng agent accounts and other specified 
a8ency relationships. (Deposit-taking, as originally proposed, would have 
b e en limited to deposits arising from trust funds not currently invested, 
a n d those received under trust instruments, or deposits received for special 
U s e on behalf of an issuer of securities or an investor in securities.) 
-- Prohibit trust company subsidiaries from making loans or 
investments except the sale of federal funds, the making of call loans to 
securities dealers or the purchase of money market instruments such as 
C e rtif l c a t e s Q f d e p o s l t > commercial paper, government or municipal securities 

3810 
- 
2 
-
and bankers acceptances. 
(The original proposal would have permitted com-
mercial lending by a trust company under some circumstances.) 
Such loans and investments may not be used as a method of channeling 
funds to nonbanking affiliates of the trust company, under the new proposal. 
Comment on the revised proposal will be received by the Secretary 
°f the Board through November 2, 1973. 
A copy of the revised proposal is attached. 
- 0 -

3811 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR PART 225] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanking Activities and Interests 
By notice of proposed rule making published in the Federal 
Register on July 13, 1973 (38 Federal Register 18691), the Board of 
Governors proposed to amend section 225.4(a)(4) of Regulation Y to 
clarify the boundaries upon deposit-taking activities that are properly 
incidental to trust company activities which the Board has determined 
to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks 
as to be a proper incident thereto, and to provide that the kinds of 
activities authorized under section 225.4(a)(4) include those performed 
not only by trust company subsidiaries that are State-chartered, but 
also by any such subsidiaries that may operate as limited purpose trust 
companies under national bank charters and that do not both accept 
demand deposits and make commercial loans. 
Following consideration of the comments received, the Board 
has determined to modify its proposal. Pursuant to its authority under 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)), 
the Board proposes to amend section 225.4(a)(4) to authorize nonbanking 
trust company subsidiaries of bank holding companies to accept deposits 
that are generated from trust funds not currently invested and deposits 
representing funds received for a special use in the capacity of a 
managing agent or custodian for an owner of, or investor in, real property, 

- 2 -
3812 
securities, or other personal property, or as agent for an issuer of, 
or broker or dealer in, securities, provided that such agency or custodian 
accounts are not employed by or for the account of a customer in the 
manner of a general purpose checking account and do not bear interest. 
Additionally, the amendment now proposed would prohibit trust company 
subsidiaries from making loans or investments except the sale of federal 
funds, the making of call loans to securities dealers or the purchase 
of money market instruments such as certificates of deposit, commercial 
Paper, government or municipal securities, and bankers acceptances. 
Such authorized loans and investments, however, may not be used as 
a method of channeling funds to nonbanking affiliates of the trust 
company. The revised proposal also retains a feature of the Board's 
original proposal permitting the acquisition by bank holding companies 
under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of nonbanking 
trust companies having national bank charters. It is recognized that 
holding companies may, in their home State, choose to apply for limited 
Purpose trust companies under section 3 of the Act in order to obtain 
broader lending privileges. 
The revised proposal would broaden the scope of permissible 
deposit-taking by trust company subsidiaries beyond the perimeters 
of the Board's original proposal, but narrow the scope of permissible, 
incidental lending activities. In so doing, it seeks to balance the 
desirable objectives of facilitating the achievement of greater 
efficiencies in the conduct of trust operations and providing additional 

3813 
-3-
incentives for increased competition for trust business on a nationwide 
scale on the one hand and, on the other, to remove the possibilities 
of indirect evasion of section 3(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(d)) through the augmentation of the commercial lending 
capabilities of bank holding companies in States other than the State 
in which their principal banking subsidiaries operate. The revised 
proposal draws a rule that, based on the comments received, the Board 
believes would enable incidental deposit-taking consistent with the 
full range of conventional functions or activities of a trust company 
without risk of significant displacement of commercial bank checking 
account services. 
The proposed amended subparagraph (a)(4) of § 225.4 of 
Regulation Y would read as follows: 
§ 225.4 Honbanking activities. 
(a) Activities closely related to banking or managing or 
controlling banks. *** The following activities have been determined 
by the Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling 
banks as to be a proper incident thereto: 
* 
* 
* 
(4) performing or carrying on any one or more of the functions 
or activities that may be performed or carried on by a trust company 
(including activities of a fiduciary, agency, or custodian nature), 
In the manner authorized by federal or State law, so long as the 

3814 
-4-
institution does not make loans or investments or accept deposits other 
than (i) deposits that are generated from trust funds not currently 
invested and are properly secured to the extent required by law, or 
(ii) deposits representing funds received for a special use in the 
capacity of managing agent or custodian for an owner of, or investor 
in, real property, securities, or other personal property, or for such 
owner or investor as agent or custoduan of funds held for investment 
or escrow agent, or for an issuer of, or broker or dealer in securities, 
in a capacity such as paying agent, dividend disbursing agent, or securities 
clearing agent, and not employed by or for the account of the customer 
in the manner of a general purpose checking account or bearing interest, 
°r, (iii) sale of federal funds, making of call loans to securities 
dealers or purchase of money market instruments such as certificates 
°f deposit, commercial paper, government or municipal securities, and 
bankers acceptances (such authorized loans and investments, however, 
may not be used as a method of channeling funds to nonbanking affiliates 
o f the trust company). . . 
" 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
argument. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
D* C. 2C551, to be received not later than November 2, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
~ 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
