MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 18, 19 73 

# 
•><• ? 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 18, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Feldberg of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York 
Mr. Wilbanks and Mrs. Scott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 

O ' > ' J 
1/18/73 
-2-
At the suggestion of Chairman Burns, those present stood in a 
moment of silent prayer in memory of President Aubrey N, Heflin of the 
federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, who passed away on January 16, 1973. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
°f First Steuben Bancorp, Inc., Steubenville, Ohio, to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to The First National Bank of Hopedale, Hopedale, 
Ohio, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A 
copy 0f the order is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Security 
National Corporation, Sioux City, Iowa, to acquire shares of Central 
Leasing Corporation, also of Sioux City, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
j^tem No . 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Redwood Bancorp, 
San Rafael, California, to acquire shares of National Mortgage Company, 
Salt Lake City, Utah, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Exlmbank. With a memorandum dated January 16, 1973, the Division 
of International Finance submitted a draft letter responding to a request 
from the Office of Management and Budget for the Board's views on a draft 
bill to extend the life of the Export-Import Bank for six years and for 
other purposes. 

« K O * 
1/18/73 
-3-
After several changes had been agreed upon, the Board unanimously 
improved the letter to the Office of Management and Budget in the form 
attached as Item No. A. 
F & M Operating Company. On October 12 and 26, 1972, the Board 
considered the applications of F & M Operating Company, Abilene, Texas, 
to acquire shares of the successor by merger to First National Bank of 
Abilene and, as an incident thereto, to acquire indirectly additional shares 
of Bank of Commerce, also of Abilene. At those meetings questions had been 
raised regarding (1) the condition of Bank of Commerce; (2) First National 
Bank's employee profit-sharing trust being used as a medium to obtain addi-
tional control of Bank of Commerce with no apparent benefits to employees; 
and (3) preferential bank stock loans made by First National Bank to 
officers and directors of other banks in the market. 
In a memorandum dated January 16, 1973, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation commented on the issues raised at the October meetings. 
Other related documentation included memoranda from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated September 20 and October 20, 1972, and a memo-
randum from the Legal Division dated October 24, 1972. Staff continued to 
recommend approval of the applications subject to the condition that the 
interest rate charged by First National on bank stock loans be raised to 
the prevailing local prime rate. 
During discussion, while the Board indicated support for the staff 
recommendation, views were expressed in favor of indicating in the Board's 

ft-" 
V w O 
1/18/73 
-4-
order regarding these applications that all banks should adopt a policy 
in lending on bank stock that would avoid the suggestion of preferential 
treatment. The Board also agreed that language should be added indicating 
that it is inappropriate for a bank to use a profit-sharing employees' 
trust fund to further its efforts to gain control by investing in stock 
°f banking organizations in which the bank has an interest. 
The Board thereupon unanimously approved the applications and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 5. 
First Florida Bancorporation. On January 2, 1973, the Board 
considered further the application of First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, 
Florida, to merge with United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Miami Beach, 
Florida. At that meeting questions had been raised regarding the appli-
cation and it was decided that the case should be considered further at 
a time when all Board members could be present. 
Both the Board's staff and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
recommended denial of the application. Documentation that had been 
distributed subsequent to the January 2 meeting included memoranda from 
the Banking Markets Section dated January 3, 15, and 16, 1973, and a 
memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated January 16. 
After discussion the Board denied the application, Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, and Sheehan dissenting. It was understood that implementing 
documents would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 

1/18/73 
-5-
First at Orlando Corporation. On January 9, 1973, the Board 
considered the application of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, 
Florida, to acquire shares of Citrus First National Bank of Leesburg, 
Leesburg, Florida, a proposed new bank. At that meeting staff was asked 
to explore questions that had been raised with respect to the competitive 
aspects of the application. 
In memoranda dated January 15 and 16, 1973, the Banking Markets 
Section and the Division of Supervision and Regulation responded to the 
questions raised at the January 9 meeting. Staff continued to recommend 
approval of the application. 
After discussion the Board unanimously denied the application, 
with the understanding that an order reflecting that decision would be 
prepared for the Board's consideration. 
CBT Corporation. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting approval on November 20, 1972, of the application of CBT Corpo-
ration, Hartford, Connecticut, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
to Fairfield County National Bank, Norwalk, Connecticut. Copies of the 
order and of the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
are attached under Item No. 6. 
Ellis Banking Corporation. The Board unanimously approved the 
application of Ellis Banking Corporation, Bradenton, Florida, to acquire 
shares of First Security Bank, Bradenton, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
With the understanding that certain language changes would be made in a 
draft that had been distributed, the Board authorized issuance of an order 

«• V* >f* 
if 
1/18/73 
-6-
feflecting that decision. 
(Note: It was subsequently determined that 
the order in its revised form should be reviewed by the Board.) In a 
related action the Board approved the application of First Security 
Bank for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
First Florida Bancorporation. The Board unanimously approved 
the application of First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, to 
acquire shares of Ormond Beach First National Bank, Ormond Beach, 
Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A 
copy 0f tiie order is attached as Item No. 7. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff. 
Reserve Bank budgets. In a memorandum dated December 19, 1972, 
the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans recommended 
approval of the Federal Reserve Bank budgets for the first half of 1973. 
The proposed budgets were presented with a memorandum of December 15, 1972, 
from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations. In addition, the 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, in a memo-
randum of January 12, 1973, proposed the formation of a System committee 
to examine policies, programs, and activities, both at the Reserve Banks 
and the Board, in an effort to improve System effectiveness and productivity. 
At the outset of today's discussion, it was noted that the 
budgets proposed today represented a reduction of approximately 2.4 per cent 
°f the total controllable expenses requested for this period by the Reserve 
Banks. Although the reduction proposed seemed to be a modest one, it was 
felt that a more sizable reduction at this time would be unwise. 

1/18/73 
-7-
During ensuing discussion concern was expressed with respect to 
the 
continued growth in expenditures within the System. It was believed 
that a portion of the increase in System expenditures could be attributed 
to the expansion necessary to keep pace with natural growth within the 
country, as well as the System's desire to provide additional and more 
efficient services to the commercial banking system. However, there was 
also a general view that the increase in expenditures could be traced in 
Part to decreased productivity within the System. The view was expressed 
that over the years the System may have devoted too little attention to 
certain budget-related areas, including techniques such as cost/benefit 
analysis. There was a belief that the Board should provide more leader-
ship to achieve increased productivity and cost reduction. 
During further discussion support developed in favor of the 
formation of a System committee, along the lines proposed by the Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, that would work to 
improve System effectiveness and productivity. Although the exact composi-
tion of the proposed committee was not decided upon, there was general 
agreement that Board members, Reserve Bank Presidents, and Reserve Bank 
directors with business backgrounds should be represented on the committee. 
It was believed that the establishment of a committee of this nature would 
be a significant step toward more efficient operations within the System. 
The view was also expressed that, through the formation of a System committee 
of the type under consideration, proposals for reforms and improved operating 
Procedures could come from within the System. 

1/18/73 
-8-
Attention then focused on the Reserve Bank budgets for the first 
half of 1973, and general support was indicated for the proposal submitted 
today, including the proposed reduction of $5 million or 2.4 per cent. 
Governor Brimmer, however, was opposed to a reduction of the size and 
nature proposed. He was concerned primarily that an arbitrary reduction 
would be bad for Reserve Bank morale and might curtail important programs. 
He felt that more time was needed to review the problem. 
The Board thereupon approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the 
Reserve Bank budgets for the first half of 1973 as proposed by the Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans. It was understood that 
the Reserve Banks would be notified of the Board's action. Copies of the 
communications sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston are attached 
under Item No. 8. Similar communications, reflecting variations for 
individual Districts, were sent to the other Reserve Banks. 
It was understood that as soon as practicable the Board would 
devote further consideration to the formation of a System committee along 
the lines discussed today. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
1/18/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST STEUBEN BANCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Steuben Bancorp, Inc., Steubenville, Ohio, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f o r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
0f the successor by merger to The First National Bank of Hopedale, Hopedale, 
° h i o ("Bank1'). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
exccpt as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
°rganization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
o f Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
has been timely received. 
The Board has considered the application in 
li&ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the" Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank, The First National Bank and Trust 
C°mpany in Steubenville, Steubenville, Ohio ("First National"), with total 
dePosits of $80.6 million, representing 0.3 per cent of the total commercial 
dePosits in Ohio. 
Consummation of the proposal herein would increase its 
Proportion of State deposits by only 0.02 per cent and accordingly would 
n°t result in a significant increase in the concentration of banking 
resources in Ohio. 
Banking data are as of June 30, 1972. 

261 
Bank ($5.8 million in deposits) is the only banking institution 
the village of Uopedale (population 916), a rural community located in the 
s°utheastern portion of Ohio, 18 miles west of Steubenville. 
It is the 
second largest of three commercial banks in the Cadiz banking market (the 
relevant market) and controls 25.8 per cent of area deposits. 
The largest 
competitor therein holds 59.7 per cent of market deposits and is a subsidiary 
o f the largest multi-bank holding company in the State. From the facts of 
r e cord, it appears that consummation of the proposed transaction would 
h a ve no present or future adverse competitive effect on the banks in the 
m a rket, but rather, should stimulate additional competition among them. 
Bank and First National essentially operate in separate banking 
2/ 
markets 
and the closest banking offices of the two are 8.5 miles apart. 
A3-though their adjoining service areas slightly overlap, it does not appear 
^ a t a significant amount of existing competition would be eliminated by 
c°nsummation of this proposal. 
Further, the restrictive branching laws 
i n Ohio and the fact that Hopedale is not attractive as a de novo bank 
site preclude any potential for increased future competition between Applicant 
atld Bank. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that the 
Competitive considerations with respect to this transaction are consistent 
w i t h approval of the application. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, 
its subsidiary bank, and Bank are considered to be satisfactory and prospects 
f o r allv upon consummation, are favorable. 
It appears that Bank has generally 
^ 
First National operates 7 offices, holding 26.9 per cent of total deposits, 
i n the Steubenville-Weirton banking market. 

' r 232 
-3-
satisfied the needs of the community. Applicant proposes to expand the 
operations of Bank and to improve the quality of services now being rendered 
hy offering trust services, larger loans, data processing services, and an 
improved student loan program. Accordingly, considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served are consistent with, and 
lend weight toward, approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment 
tl*at consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest 
G n d that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. 
The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
Such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective January 18, 1973. 
(Signed) 
Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
°aane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. 

233 
Item No. 2 
1/18/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SECURITY NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Central L e a s ' C o r p o r a t i o n 
Security National Corporation, Sioux City, Iowa, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)), and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, 
t o acquire all of the voting shares of Central Leasing Corporation, 
Sl-oux City, Iowa ("Central"). 
The proposed subsidiary engages in 
basing major items of personal property and equipment on a "full 
Pay-out" basis. 
Such activities have been determined by the Board 
t o be closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)). 
^ bank holding company may acquire a company engaged in an activity 
^etermined by the Board to be closely related to banking provided 
that the proposed acquisition is warranted under the relevant public 
Interest factors specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public 
interest factors, has been duly published (37 Federal Register 
23021). The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
n°ne has been timely received. 

Otr ry 
-3-
Applicant, a one-bank holding company, controls Security 
National Bank of Sioux City, Sioux City, Iowa ("Bank"), the eighth 
la^gest bank in Iowa with deposits of $98.9 million, representing 
per cent of aggregate commercial bank deposits in Iowa. 
(All 
banking data are as of June 30, 1972, unless otherwise indicated.) 
Sank holds 29.8 per cent of total deposits in the Sioux City banking 
market and is the largest, in terms of deposits, of the 11 Sioux 
C i t y market banks. 
Central, organized in 1961, has total assets of about 
$90 thousand as of June 30, 1972, and its one office is located in 
Si-oux City. 
Central engages in the business of leasing personal 
Property and equipment, on a "full pay-out basis," throughout an 
area extending within a 25-mile radius of the city. 
Presently no bank 
l n the Sioux City area engages in similar leasing activities. 
There 
i 
no indication in the record that area banks plan to engage in 
basing businesses, nor, absent approval of this proposal, that 
applicant would enter de novo such leasing operations. 
On the basis 
o f the facts of record, the elimination of existing or potential 
c°mpetition resulting from this proposal appears minimal, and the 
^°ard considers the competitive considerations as consistent with 
aPproval of the application. 

-3-
Otr ry 
It appears that consummation of this proposed transaction 
w°uld not result in any undue concentration of resources, conflicts 
o f interests, unsound banking practices, or any other adverse 
effects on the public interest. 
However, the convenience of the 
Sioux City area would be enhanced by the improved and expanded 
basing operations resulting from the proposed affiliation. 
Com-
bination of the two organizations may also result in efficiencies 
in operation since certain duplicate services would be eliminated. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the 
Public interest factors the Board is required to consider under 
5 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. 
Accordingly, the application is hereby 
aPproved. 
This determination is subject to the conditions set forth 
i n § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to 
r°<luire such modification or termination of the activities of a 
hiding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds 
n°cessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
^ e Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or 
t o Prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective January 18, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
'itchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. 

23G 
Item No. 3 
1/18/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REDWOOD BANCORP 
Order Approving Acquisition of National Mortgage Company 
Redwood Bancorp, San Rafael, California, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board1s approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the 
Board1s Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of National 
Mortgage Company, Salt Lake City, Utah, a company that engages in the 
activity of mortgage banking and acting as agent for the sale of credit 
accident and health insurance and property insurance directly re-
nted to extensions of credit. Such activities have been determined by 
the Board to be closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 
225.4(a)(l) and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (37 Federal Register 25257). The time for filing 
c°nwnents and views has expired and none has been timely received. 
Applicant was incorporated in 1972 for the purpose of acquiring 
Redwood Bank (deposits of $48.6 million)- , San Rafael, California. 
Ap-
plicant now owns all the outstanding shares of Redwood Bank ("Bank"), with 
the exception of the directors' qualifying shares. Bank operates five 
in the San Francisco Bay area and ranks fifth among the ten banks 
Serving Marin County, its principal market, where it holds 7.6 per cent 
the total commercial deposits. 
Its share of State-wide deposits amounts 
i r Deposit data are as of June 30, 1970. 

-3-
Otr ry 
to but 0.1 per cent. Bank is engaged in mortgage lending throughout 
the nine counties of the San Francisco Bay area, where it competes with 
a large number of lenders. 
In the first nine months of 1972, Bank 
°riginated approximately $11,7 million in mortgage loans, or 0.2 per 
°ent of the total mortgage recordings in the Bay area counties. As of 
September 29, 1972, Bank's outstanding mortgage loans approximated 
$9.7 million, of which $722,000 were held for resale to institutional 
investors. 
National Mortgage Company ("Company") is a small family-
°"wned business engaged in the origination and servicing of mortgage 
loans through offices located in Salt Lake City, Utah^ Tucson, Arizona; 
and Idaho Falls, Idaho. During its most recent fiscal year, Company's 
Tucson office originated $10.1 million in mortgage loans, while its 
Salt Lake office originated $2.1 million. Company's Idaho Falls Office 
services mortgage loans but has not originated any new loans in the past 
three years. Company is not a major competitor in any of the mortgage 
loan markets in which it competes. 
It ranks twentieth among mortgage 
lenders in both the Salt Lake City and Pima County, Arizona, markets. 
Since Applicant and Company do not compete in the same mort-
gage loan markets, the proposed acquisition would eliminate no direct 
competition. Moreover, the two institutions are not likely to compete 
in the future due to their small size and the intervening distances. 
The Board therefore concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisi-
tion would have no adverse effects on mortgage lending in any of the 

Otr ry 
-3-
local markets. 
Due to the limited nature of its insurance activities, it 
d°es not appear that Company's engagement in such activities would have 
ai*y significant effect on either existing or potential competition. 
It is anticipated that the proposed acquisition would enable 
Applicant to provide capital and managerial skill to Company which would 
e*Pand Company's range of services and also permit it to compete for sig-
nificantly larger mortgage loans. 
The Board concludes that these public 
benefits are a positive factor in terms of public needs and convenience. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
t h e record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public inter-
e s t factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
Ac c°rdingly, the application is hereby approved. 
This determination Is sub-
J e ct to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(a) of Regulation Y and to the 
B°ard's authority to require such modification or termination of the activi-
fcl 
e s of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds 
P e s s a r y to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act 
an(1 the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent 
6 vasio n thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 18, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
•>>/ Voting for this action; 
Chairman n m n s nml Governors Robertson, 
ltchell, Daane, Brlmmor 4 Sboohan and Bucher. 

B • A P. D • F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
1/18/73 
DF 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 
20 HM 
ADDKES3 UFTICiAL COR(!ESPUNOENCE 
TO THE f 1 n A I! D 
January 18, 1973 
Krv James V. C. Hyde, Jr. 
Office of the Assistant Director for 
Legi s la t ive Re fer enc e 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, I). C, 20303 
Bear Mr. Hyde: 
In response to your legislative referral memorandum of 
Hoc ember 14, 1972, the Board of: Governors has considered the draft 
bll I to extend the l:».fe of Export.-Import; Bank for six years and 
for other purposes. 
7h.- Board would not ob U>.cl to the M 11. 
It does believe, particularly with an increased level. 
of financing activity contemplated by the bill, that effective 
review and consuJtatior procedures among the several responsible 
agencies will continue to be of importance in ensuring the 
compatibility of Kximbank's activities with U. 
balance-of-paymenta 
and other goals. 
Sincerely your 
If./* 
c > 
/ 
i 
/ Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

holdir 
Item No. 1 
1/18/73 
210 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
F & M OPERATING COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
F & M Operating Company, Abilene, Texas, a registered bank 
Lng company owning 28.6 per cent of the voting shares of Bank 
Commerce, Abilene, Texas, has applied for the Board's approval 
U n d e* § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire directly 
^ Per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
Of *.r 
successor by merger to First National Bank of Abilene, Abilene, 
^^"Xci /If 
s ( First National"), and, as an incident thereto, to acquire 
irectly an additional 3.9 per cent of the voting shares of Bank of 
Co 
^ r c e , Abilene, Texas ("BOC Bank"), which shares are now held by 
s t National's employees profit sharing trust; by virtue of § 2(g)(2) 
of a e Act, such shares would be deemed to be controlled by Applicant 
lt:s acquisition of the successor by merger to First National. 
The 
bank ^ 
into which First National is to be merged has no significance except 
as a it, 
raeans to facilitate the acquisition of all the voting shares of 
i r s t National. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the successor 
^ i z a t i o n Is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of First 
Clonal. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
ons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
of the Act. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
3oard has considered the applications and all comments received 
Xi8ht of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

Otr ry 
-3-
Applicant, the trusteed affiliate of First National ($76.3 
m i l U o n deposits), was organized in 1956 by the management of First 
National, and presently holds 28.6 per cent of the voting shares of BOC 
Banl< ($10.9 million deposits). 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 
adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
aPproved by the Board through August 31, 1972.) 
As a result of a 
^structuring of existing interests, Applicant's status as a trusteed 
f i l i a t e would be terminated, and Applicant would acquire all the voting 
shares (except for directors' qualifying shares) of First National and, 
QQ 
a result thereof, an additional 3.9 per cent of the voting shares of 
B°c Bank, which shares are now held by First National's employees profit 
, 
1/ 
faring trust. 
Upon consummation of the proposal, Applicant would control 
t o tal deposits of $87.2 million, representing .3 of one per cent of the 
tQtal commercial bank deposits in the State. 
First National, located in downtown Abilene, is the largest 
banking organization in the Abilene banking market, approximated by the 
A b U e n e SMSA, and holds 29.2 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
i^^hile in this instance 
the investment by the profit sharing trust is 
regarded as significant, the Board is concerned that the profit sharing 
rust which was established for the exclusive benefit of the employees of 
'irst National has invested in some of the voting shares of BOC bank. 
While 
stock of banks and bank holding companies can be appropriate investments 
° r such a trust, the Board is of the view that such holdings should be 
i^ited to investments in banking organizations in which the bank that estab-
lshed the trust has neither an actual or potential interest to influence or 
c°ntrol. 
Moreover, the Board regards it as inappropriate for a bank to use 
S U ch a trust to further its own interests by investing in the stock of banking 
°r5anizations in direct competition with the investing bank. 

z\z 
-3-
kanks there. 
BOC Bank, located on the outskirts of the city seven miles 
ftom First National, is the fourth largest banking organization in the 
Market, and holds 4.2 per cent of the deposits in commercial banks in the 
atket. 
Consummation of the proposal would result in Applicant controlling 
t w° banks in the same market and about 33 per cent of the deposits in that 
^rket. 
However, since the two banks in question are already under common 
Control, and since the proposed transaction is essentially a reorganization 
listing interests and reflects neither an expansion of a banking group 
n°r an increase in the banking resources controlled by it, consummation of 
applicant's proposal is not expected to affect existing or potential banking 
^Petition. 
On the basis of the facts of record, the Board concludes that 
c°asummation of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on competition 
a ny relevant area. 
its 
The financial condition of Applicant is considered satisfactory, 
Management (which is drawn principally from First National) is considered 
CaPable> and its prospects appear favorable. 
The same conclusions apply 
^ e r a l l y with respect to the financial condition, management, and prospects 
^ pirst National and BOC Bank. 
These considerations relating to the banking 
actors are consistent with approval of the applications. 
Inasmuch as the proposal involves essentially a corporate reorgani-
^at i 
° n» there would be no immediate effect on the convenience and needs of 
the 0 communities involved. 
However, considerations relating to the convenience 
i 
aeeds of the communities are regarded as consistent with approval of 
th 
e applications. 

Otr ry 
-3-
In considering this application, the Board noted that First 
^tional has made several personal loans at preferential rates to officials 
at other Abilene banks which maintain correspondent balances with First 
National. 
In most instances, the loan was collaterallized by stock of 
t h e borrowing official's bank. 
The Board believes that, if such loans are 
t o be made by banks at all, they should be made on the same basis as stock 
c°Hateral loans in general. 
The Board is concerned that such preferential 
loans could result in a conflict of interest or breach of fiduciary duty 
° n the part of the borrowing officer or director if the reduction in the 
M e r e s t rate is conditioned on the maintenance of correspondent balances 
WJ-th the lending bank or if such loans are not available on an equivalent 
2/ 
b a sis to all shareholders of the borrowing official's bank. 
In addition, 
taking bank stock loans at lower than the prevailing interest rate may 
ir*dicate that the lending bank Is attempting to gain a measure of indirect 
c°ntrol of the bank shares pledged as collateral for the loan without the 
aPproval of the Board as required by the Act, although no evidence has been 
Presented in the present case that First National has made such an attempt. 
4/ The Board's concern In this area is also reflected in the guidelines 
Previously adopted by the Board for use by the Reserve Banks in approving, 
^ d e r delegated authority, the formation of one-bank holding companies, 
hose guidelines provide, inter alia, that Reserve Banks may approve the 
ormation of a bank holding company involving a bank stock loan where the 
°an for the purchase of the bank stock is at an interest rate comparable 
VJ-th other stock collateral loans by the lender to persons of comparable 
Credit standing, and the loan is not conditioned upon maintenance of a 
Correspondent bank balance with the lender that exceeds the usual needs 
the bank whose shares are being purchased. 
12 CFR 265.2(f)(22). 

244 
a matter of policy in its administration of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
it is the Board's view that each bank should adopt promptly a policy in 
lending on bank stock that avoids the potential that through such loans 
has unlawfully acquired a measure of control over the shares involved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
1:116 reasons summarized above. 
The transactions shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
^deral Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 29, 1973. 
(Signed) 
Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
g/ Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
aane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

Item No. 1 
1/18/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CBT CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
CBT Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
acc*uire not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of the successor 
b y m e rger to Fairfield County National Bank, Norwalk, Connecticut 
( Bank"), The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
e*CePt as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of 
Accordingly 
the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
r8ani2ation is treated as the proposed acquisition of shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
3( b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
li8ht of the factors set forth In § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
Applicant is the second largest banking organization in 
C()h|. 
ecticut, 
It controls one bank, The Connecticut Bank and Trust Com-
PaUy> having aggregate deposits of approximately $1.0 billion. 
(All 
anking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect bank holding com-
P9tly formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through Dac ember 
» 1972.) The ten largest banking organizations in Connecticut control 
C u t 80 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State. 
Applicant 
the largest banking organization in the State, Hartford National Bank, 

-3-
together control 37,3 per cent of Statewide commercial bank deposits. 
While there is therefore significant concentration of banking resources 
in Connecticut, Applicant's market share of total commercial bank de-
Posits (18.2 per cent) has not yet reached a level where, in the Board's 
judgment, the acquisition of an existing bank should be presumed sub-
stantially to lessen competition without regard to the degree of addi-
tional concentration or the significance of the acquisition to the local 
Market. The acquisition of Bank ($11.5 million of deposits) would in-
crease Applicant's share of deposits in the State by only two-tenths of 
one per cent. 
This would represent an insignificant increase in the 
concentration of banking resources. 
Bank is one of twelve banking organizations that have offices 
the Stamford-Norwalk banking market. 
Bank and Applicant's subsidiary 
hank are the two smallest competitors in that market, measured in terms 
market share of commercial bank deposits in the market. 
Bank con-
trols only 1.0 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the market, 
and the share of Applicant's subsidiary bank is only a fractional per-
centage. 
Furthermore, the Stamford-Norwalk market is subject to sig-
nifleant competition from the much larger New York City banks due to 
their proximity 'to the market and the appreciable commuter flow from 
that area to New York City. 
The proposed acquisition would therefore 
involve no significant increase in concentration of banking resources 
i^ the local banking market. 

Otr ry 
-3-
The record indicates that present competition between Bank and 
Applicant's subsidiary bank is minimal. Bank is primarily a retail bank 
serving the Norwalk SMSA from its main office and only other branch, both 
located in the city of Norwalk. Applicant's subsidiary bank operates its 
°nly branches in the market in the towns of Darien and New Canaan, which 
a r e in the Stamford SMSA and are each about five miles distant from Bank. 
There is little deposit or loan overlap of each institution's business 
lrito the other's service area. The Board concludes that there is no 
meaningful existing competition that would be eliminated by the proposed 
acquisition. 
It Is possible that future competition could develop betwem 
Applicant and Bank. Applicant's subsidiary bank is presently prohibited 
from establishing a branch in Norwalk because of the home office protec-
tl°n enjoyed by Bank and one other local hank under Connecticut's branch-
, 
y 
n 8 statute. 
The possibility that Applicant's subsidiary bank might 
establish branches in neighboring towns, such as Wilton, Redding, or 
Weston, promises only marginal competition with Bank because, with a 
tQtal capital and surplus of $400,000, Bank is not legally permitted to 
establish branches outside the city of Norwalk. However, Applicant 
c°uld possibly enter Norwalk through the formation of a new bank. 
It 
must be considered to be a likely potential de novo entrant in view of 
i/ IJnder section 36-59 of Connecticut's General Statutes, a commercial 
bank may establish and operate branches only in towns in which no other 
commercial bank has its main office. 

Otr ry 
-3-
the recent interest shown by Applicant in this area of the State through 
Ranching by Applicant's subsidiary bank into nearby Darien and Fairfield 
i n 1971 and into New Canaan and Ridgefield in 1972. 
Nevertheless, it does not appear that the elimination of 
Possible future competition between Applicant and Bank is likely to have 
signifleant adverse effects in the market. Most of the State's ten 
largest banking organizations already have offices in the market, and 
there appears to be a large number of banking alternatives for retail 
banking customers. Moreover, with its limited capital and surplus, Bank 
do 
e s not have the resources required to offer specialized banking ser-
i e s of a kind that can be provided by a subsidiary bank of a large 
°lding company such as Applicant and that are presently being offered 
ky the branches of the larger New Haven and Bridgeport banks with which 
competes. 
Applicant is not dominant in the market, and there remain a 
« 
v independent banks that could affiliate with other banking organiza-
tl 
not represented in the market. 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
not raise barriers to entry into the market by other banking 
°r8anizations or place Applicant in a dominant position in the market. 
The Board is, however, concerned about the possibility that the 
Posed acquisition would, standing by itself, permanently close the city 
* Norwalk 
t° fllx n o v ° branching by out-of-town banks under Connecticut's 
Office Protection Law, cited above. 
In response to the Board's con-
C e rh, Applicant has made a commitment to the Board, if the proposed 

Otr ry 
-3-
acquisition is approved by the Board, to take such steps as may be 
necessary and legally permissible to open the city of Norwalk to branch 
banking by out-of-town banks at such time as the existence in Norwalk 
Bank's main office may become the only legal impediment to such branch-
ing. This commitment leaves open the possibility that Norwalk will become 
°Pen to such branching in the future, and the Board considers this pos-
sibility to be meaningful in view of the fact that the only other bank 
Presently enjoying home office protection in Norwalk is not affiliated 
2/ 
^ith a bank holding company. 
Taking into consideration Applicant's commitment, the Board 
concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
result in significant adverse effects on either existing or potential 
competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank appear to be satisfactory. 
The 
banking needs of the communities involved are being adequately met at 
Present, 
However, Applicant proposes to provide through Bank an alter-
native source of specialized banking services to residents of the Norwalk 
S*1SA. Considerations relating to convenience and needs of the communities 
fco be served are consistent with approval. 
It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed transaction is consistent with the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
Applicant owns directly one nonbanking subsidiary that was ac-
quired between June 30, 1968 and December 31, 1970, CBT Data Services, 
17 Merchants Bank and Trust Company ($30.1 million of deposits). 

Otr ry 
-3-
fetford, 
Connecticut, 
Acquired in September 1970, thi* Company engages 
i n the business of providing data processing services to nonbanking 
es. 
In making its determination herein, the Board has relied upon a 
f i*di n g t h a t t h e c o m b i n a t i o n o f a n additional subsidiary bank with Ap-
plicant's existing; nonbanking subsidiaries Is unlikely to have an adverse 
e f f e c t u P ° n the public interest at the present time. However, the Ap~ 
pli-cantr
s banking and nonbanking activities remain subject to Board re-
V1ew and the Board retains the authority to require Applicant to modify 
0 t terminate its nonbanking activities or holdings if the Board at any 
ti 
m G determines that the combination of Applicant's banking and nonbanking 
a ctiviti e s is likely to have adverse effects on the public interest. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
Masons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
b e £or e the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Ord 
e r or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
°tCier> unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 19, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(SEAL] 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
t^ i s action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Sehan and Bucher. Voting Agniwot-. H d u n^tfonj 
Rovemors Robertson and 
or«nmer 

251 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We would deny the application. 
Consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would contribute to the already high level of concentration 
°f banking resources in Connecticut. 
In addition, it would eliminate 
Potential competition in the rapidly growing Norvalk SMSA through the 
affiliation with Applicant—an organization capable of competing 
effectively on its own in the market—of a small but aggressive retail 
bank that could otherwise serve as a vehicle for entry into that market 
bV a smaller bank holding company. 
In these circumstances, the ap-
plication should be approved only upon a showing of significant public 
henefits expected to flow from the proposed acquisition which would out-
w eigh the adverse effects on competition. However, the convenience and 
needs of the communities involved are being adequately served, and there 
a re no significant public benefits alleged for the proposed acquisition 
that would justify approval of the application. 
Concentration of banking resources in Connecticut has already 
Cached such a level as to convince us that the acquisition of an 
ad<Utional existing bank by a banking organization that controls ap-
proximately 18.2 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State 
should be presumed to be unlawful in the absence of significant public 
benefits to the communities served by the bank being acquired. 
The 
Majority of the Board cites most of the pertinent statistics but reaches 
ar* opposite conclusion. We would only point out, in addition, that since 
J une 30, 1961, the two largest banking organizations in the State have 
increased their combined market fihares by 2-1/2 percentage points. 

-2-
APproval of this application and similar applications by either of the 
tt 
0 largest banking organizations in the State will only tend to per~ 
P e t u a t e the high level of concentration of banking resources in 
G°nnecticut. This would be to the detriment of competition and the 
P u b U c welfare. 
Ue are also less sanguine than the majority of the Board about 
significance of anticipated adverse effects on banking competition 
a t ^ e local level. The city of Norwalk is heavily industrialized and 
hag ^ 
experienced excellent growth in recent years. Furthermore, growth is 
xPected to continue at an above average pace as compared with other 
G a s of Connecticut. Applicant has displayed considerable interest in 
Penetrating this section of the State — with recently established branches 
iti 
Darien, Fairfield, New Canaan, and Ridgefield, each of which neighbors 
the Norwalk SMSA. Bank ($11.5 million of deposits) has compiled a 
atisfactory competitive record since its founding in 1964. 
Despite 
ntrolling only about 4.1 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in 
Norwalk SMSA, it is an aggressive competitor within the framework of 
etaii banking competition in that market. Applicant has the financial 
atid m 
managerial resources to compete effectively in the market without 
acqm r. 
i r m g a going concern such as Bank. Applicant is a likely potential 
ntrant i n t o t h e mari<;et# 
Therefore, its acquisition of Bank is anti-
°mPetitive since that acquisition will eliminate the potential competi-
vh: 
of a /Emhaidlary bank. 
tio 
n ^hich would result if Applicant; onfered the market through de novo 

Otr ry 
-3-
Connecticut has a Home Office Protection Law (Conn, Gen, 
S t a t . 36-59) which prohibits commercial banks from branching into 
towns where other commercial banks have their home office. 
The effect 
this law is to foreclose entry into many important markets in the 
S t a t e except through the acquisition of an existing or de novo bank. 
TM 
l s law affords a competitive advantage to the largest banking organiza-
t i ons in the State which have the resources to pay a substantially higher 
p r emiu m to acquire existing banks than their smaller competitors can af-
f 
r d to pay. 
For example, in the present application, Applicant is paying 
a very substantial premium for the shares of the bank being acquired 
— 
approximately 70 per cent in excess of book value. 
This means, of course, 
ttlat supervisory authorities must pay especially careful attention to the 
C° m p e titive factor in such proposed acquisitions. 
Otherwise, Connecticut 
end up with its banking facilities controlled by a handful of giant 
hiding companies. 
There are presently five banks that have offices in the city 
^ Norwalk. 
Three of these banks are out-of-town banks that acquired 
i n c h e s in Norwalk by means of merger with local banks and are among 
ten largest banking organizations in the State, 
Bank is one of two 
ependent banks having their main offices in Norwalk which might serve 
Q Vehicle for entry into the market by other Connecticut bank holding 
°mPanies or which might affiliate or merge with other smaller Connecticut 
anUi Ug organizations that are not presently represented in the market. 
In 
ither case, Statewide competition x/ould bo. enhanced. 
Elimination of Bank 

Otr ry 
-3-
a s an independent competitor will make it more difficult for other bank 
hiding companies or banking organizations that are considerably smaller 
than Applicant and less able than Applicant to compete in this market 
trough acquisition of a de novo bank to achieve a meaningful competitive 
Presence therein. 
A majority of the Board 
apparently feels that this possible 
adverse effect on potential competition is fully counterbalanced by a 
c°wmitment of Applicant which could lead to the opening of the city of 
No**7alk to branching by out-of-town banks, if Bankfs home office therein 
sh°uld become the only legal impediment to such branching. 
In our view, 
this possible procompetitive effect is too conjectural to weigh signifi-
C a n tly in the balance of any determination regarding the competitive 
e££ects of the proposed acquisition. 
January 19% 1973 

Item No. 1 
1/18/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, a bank holding 
c°mpany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
^ 2 ( a ) ( 3 ) ) t o a C q U i r e 90 p e r cent or more of the voting shares of 
°ftr.ond Beach First National Bank, Orrnond Beach, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application affording opportunity for interested 
Petsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
l n the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C0 
1842(c)). 
Applicant, the seventh largest banking organization and bank 
company in Florida on the basis of commercial bank deposits, 
c°ntrols 25 banks with aggregate deposits of $514 million, representing 
3 9 
per cent of total deposits held by all banks in the State. 
(All 
inking 
data are as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect bank 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
trough November 30, 1972,) Approval of this proposal to acquire Bank 
($39,4 million In deposits) would increase Applicant's control of com-
bank deposits in Florida by 0.2 percentage points, and Applicant 
tank as the State's seventh largest banking organization would not change 

Otr ry 
-3-
Bank is the third largest of 13 banks operating in the Daytona 
Beach banking market, which includes the coastal area of Volusia County 
^tending from Ormond Beach southward to New Smyrna Beach and westward 
t o encompass all of Daytona Beach, and controls 15,5 per cent of the 
Market's total deposits. 
As of December 31, 1969, Bank controlled 17.7 
p e r cent of market deposits. 
Also competing with Bank are banking sub-
8 i d d i a r i e s of the second, third, fourth, and fifth largest bank holding 
Co®Panies in the State, which control about 64.3 per cent of market 
-Posits. 
Consummation of this proposal would represent Applicant's initial 
n t r y into the market and would result in increased competition in the area 
81 r> 
G G it would eliminate the present affiliation between Bank and Volusia 
C°unty National Bank, a potential competing bank. 
In addition, Bank under 
ApPlicant's control would be in a better position to compete with the 
inking offices of the four bank holding companies in the market. 
Appli-
S closest subsidiary banking office is located 55 miles southwest of 
Ba 
and no significant existing competition would be eliminated by con-
N a t i o n of the proposal, nor does it appear that meaningful potential 
^Petition would be foreclosed because of Florida's restrictive branch-
e s laws and the distances involved. 
Furthermore, it does not appear 
l k ely that Applicant will enter the market cte novo as the Daytona Beach 
Hrket appears to be well served with population and deposits per bank 
8ubstantially less than the State averages. 
On the basis of the record 
e£°re it, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acqui-
sltl 
n would not adversely affect competition In any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant are generally 
Qtlsfactory and prospects for the group appear favorable. 
Applicant 

Otr ry 
-3-
Proposes to improve the present financial and managerial conditions of Bank 
by 
providing additional capital to Bank and by furnishing such managerial 
assistance as Bank requires. Accordingly, banking factors lend weight to 
aPproval of the application. 
Major banking needs of the relevant area are 
Presently being served, and no new services are proposed by Applicant, 
However, Applicant proposes to strengthen Bank's competitive position by 
enabling Bank to improve its existing services. 
Considerations relating 
t o the convenience and needs of the area to be served are therefore con-
sistent with approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that 
proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
Ur*le8s such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 23, 1973, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
°aane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. 

Item No. 
1 
1/18/73 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
<»t y 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
1 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL. RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
'January 19, 1973 
TO THE CHAIRMAN AND PRESIDENT OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON 
The Board of Governors has approved Federal Reserve Banks' budgets for 
the first half of 1973 which are five million dollars less than the 
aggregate of Bank budget requests. This represents a 2.4 per cent 
\ 
reduction of total, controllable expenses requested and has b'een 
distributed to each Reserve Bank in proportion to its total controllable 
expanse. 
Accordingly, the Board of Governors *has established a total controllable 
expenditure ceiling for the 
1st 
District of $13,970,000. 
In 
order to achieve this or any lower level of expenditures for the first 
half of 1973, your Bank is free to adjust its operating plans, with the 
sole exception of the Regional Check Processing Center program, in 
Vhatever way the President and Board of Direccors believe will most 
effectively minimize the costs without reducing benefits of planned 
programs. 
However,- the Board would appreciate that operating expense 
reductions be implemented after appropriate discussions with the Beard's 
division of Bank Operations. 
T« 3MITH 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
'.feisif.-* 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CCRHESPQNCENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 26, 1973 
Mr. Frank E. Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Sear Mr. Morris: 
As indicated in my wire of January 19, 1973, the Board 
has considered the proposed budget for the Boston Federal Reserve 
Eank as submitted with Mr. Latham's letter of November 17, 1972. 
With reference to additional positions for Regional 
Check Processing Centers, the Board has approved 39 positions for 
operating personnel and two for support at the Connecticut facility, 
deferment of die remaining RCPC positions is requested pending 
further justification* 
Accordingly, the Board approves a June 30, 
-973, manpower level of 1,620 full-time positions excluding those 
disadvantaged youth or E.E.C. programs. 
It wouid be appreciated if the Board could receive a 
listing of those programs and costs, other than Regional Check 
Processing Centers, which will have to be curtailed in order to 
meet the $13,970,009 target expenditure limit in total control-
lable expenses for the first six months of 1973* 
Additional expenses totaling $5,487, not included in 
your budgeted total controllable expenses, are authorized for 
System transportation improvements to be administered by the 
Interdistrict Transportation System management. 
Subject to the above modifications, the Board accepts 
the budget for your Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
