MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 16, 1973 

3 1 4 2 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 16, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
a t 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Director for Management, 
Office of Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Engstrom, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

3143 
8/16/73 
-2-
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Cimeno, Assistant Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Mr. Weiss, Assistant Vice President and 
Economist, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Mr. Bilby, Consultant on Federal Reserve 
lending 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of General Financial Systems, Inc., Riviera Beach, Florida, 
permission to retain shares of Tri-City Bank, Palm Beach Gardens, 
Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United Banks 
Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of United Bank 
Skyline, National Association,.also of Denver, and authorized issuance 
of 
an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved, for transmittal to the Comptroller 
the Currency, a report on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of The Utica 
Savings Bank Company, Utica, Ohio, by The Park National Bank, Newark, 
Ohio, The conclusion read as follows: 
The Park National Bank, Newark, and The Utica Savings 
Bank Company both compete in the Newark Banking Market. 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition would eliminate 
competition presently existing between the proponents as 
well as increase the concentration of deposits held by 
the three largest banks in the relevant area. Overall, 
the effect of the proposal on competition would be adverse. 

:iivi 
8/16/73 
-3-
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its 
conditional approval, on July 19, 1973, of the application of Northwest 
incorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire shares of T. G. 
Kvensen & Associates, Inc., also of Minneapolis. A copy of the order 
ls attached under Item No. 3, along with a copy of Governor Brimmer's 
dissenting statement. Copies of the letters sent to counsel for the 
Protestants are attached under Item No. 4. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its 
aPproval, on July 24, 1973, of the application of South Carolina 
National Corporation, Columbia, South Carolina, to acquire shares of 
e successor by merger to Provident Financial Corporation, Sanford, 
N°rth Carolina. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Multibank Financial Corp. * In a memorandum of August 14, 1973, 
the Divisions of Research and Statistics and Supervision and Regulation 
recommended approval of the application of Multibank Financial Corp., 
B°ston, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of B. M. C. Durfee Trust 
Con^Pany, Fall River, Massachusetts, conditioned upon divestiture within 
reasonable period of time of the bank's sole subsidiary, which engages 
l n a nonpermissible activity. The Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had 
ecommended denial of the application, although the Bank Examination 
ePartment of that Bank favored approval. 
During discussion, consideration was given to the question of 
Pr°t>able future competition between Durfee Trust and the applicant's 

3145 
8/16/73 
-4-
subsidiary, Attleboro Trust Company, Attleboro, Massachusetts. A 
consensus was reached that there would be no significant loss of 
competition since it was unlikely that these organizations would branch 
l n t o each other's market area in the foreseeable future, and that, at 
Present, substantial competition existed within both the Fall River 
ar*d Attleboro areas and was expected to continue, especially in view 
o f the prominence of mutual savings banks in Massachusetts. The two 
viewpoints prevailing at the Boston Bank were presented, Mr. Cimeno 
agreeing with and Mr. Weiss opposing the recommendation of the Board's 
staff. 
The Board approved the application, Governor Brimmer dissenting 
°n the ground that the trend toward State-wide concentration of banking 
resources in Massachusetts argued against approving acquisitions of 
strong independent banks by the State's leading bank holding companies. 
It was understood that an order to implement this action would be 
Rafted for the Board's consideration and that a statement reflecting 
p 
Vernor Brimmer's dissent also would be prepared. 
First National Boston Corporation. In a memorandum of August 14, 
I970 the Divisions of Research and Statistics and Supervision and 
Re 
gulation recommended approval of three applications by First National 
^°ston Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, for permission: (1) to 
Squire shares of First Bank and Trust Company of Wellesley, Welles ley, 
Iassachusetts; (2) to acquire shares of Burlington Bank and Trust Company, 

3146 
8/16/73 
-5-
^urlington, Massachusetts; and (3) to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to Holyoke National Bank, Holyoke, Massachusetts. The 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had recommended approval of the Holyoke 
Proposal and denial of the Wellesley and Burlington applications, 
although the Bank Examination Department of that Bank favored approval 
°f the Burlington proposal. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated that the significant 
issue involved in the Wellesley and Burlington cases was essentially 
same, namely, whether First National Boston Corporation, the largest 
inking organization in the Boston banking market, should be permitted 
"hrv 
acquire existing suburban banks located in the same market area, 
•ftiis issue prompted questions with respect to the dominance of the 
aPplicant, concentration in the market, and the probability of de novo 
entry of First National Boston Corporation into the Boston suburban 
areas. 
Another consideration concerned the managements of these two 
Relatively new banks (both of which were formed in 1968). Although 
t"V> 
e management problems at the Wellesley bank appeared to have been 
s°lved, the Burlington bank was experiencing management as well as other 
difficulties. Interpretations differed as to whether solutions could 
be achieved more readily through acquisition by applicant or by another 
^ank holding company. On balance, the staff recommended that the benefits 
Of 
e*panded services and improved financing and management outweighed any 
P°ssible adverse effects that might result from the above-mentioned 
Coi»Petitive factors. 

3147 
8/16/73 
-6-
The Board approved the applications of First National Boston 
Corporation to acquire shares of First Bank and Trust Company of 
Wellesley and of Burlington Bank and Trust Company. Citing the concen-
tration in banking in Massachusetts, especially in the Boston area, 
and the dominance of the applicant, Governor Brimmer dissented. It 
was understood that an order to implement these decisions would be 
Rafted for the Board's consideration and that a statement reflecting 
Governor Brimmer's dissent also would be prepared. 
The third application of First National Boston Corporation— 
that to acquire shares of the successor by merger to Holyoke National 
Sank was approved unanimously, and the Board authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 6. 
Sale of "thrift notes" by subsidiary of bank holding company. 
In 
connection with a request by Citizens and Southern Holding Company, 
Atlanta, Georgia, for an opinion from the Board as to whether it would 
Permissible for the holding company to engage in the sale of small-
^nomination "thrift notes" for the purpose of supplying funds to its 
n°nbanking subsidiaries, the Division of Supervision and Regulation, in 
a memorandum of August 14, 1973, set forth two alternative courses of 
action that the Board might follow. Additional documentation included 
^oranda of August 25 , 1972 , from the Legal Division and of September 21, 
f r o m 
Division of Research and Statistics. 
Discussion at today's meeting focused on a number of issues, 
Eluding the legality of the proposed arrangement, the steps that should 

3148 
8/16/73 
-7-
taken to assure that the public would not confuse the notes with 
obligations of Citizens and Southern's banking affiliates, and the 
replications of the arrangement for monetary policy. 
With respect to the form of the notes, a number of conditions 
were considered that would minimize public confusion regarding the 
status of the notes. Sentiment was expressed for a minimum denomination 
o f $1,000, or perhaps even $5,000, rather than $50 as proposed by 
Citizens and Southern. With the higher minimum denomination, it was 
felt that the name of Citizens and Southern could appear on the notes, 
Provided that the notes would be sold only at offices of the holding 
company and its nonbanking subsidiaries and that the notes would bear 
a statement to the effect that they are not bank deposits and are not 
insured. 
After extended discussion,, the Board requested the staff to 
Prepare memoranda regarding the legality of the proposal under the 
inking Act of 1933 and regarding the economic consequences of the 
pr°posal for presentation to the Board at an early date. The staff 
al 
so was instructed to obtain the reaction of Citizens and Southern to 
tVi 
e proposed $1,000 minimum for the thrift notes. 
Hearing on permissibility of a bank holding company acquiring 
•^-^{j^gs and loan association. The Legal Division, for reasons set 
°rth in a memorandum of August 14, 19 73, recommended that the Board 
Proceed by the method of rulemaking in the matter of the application 
£ American Fletcher Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana, to acquire 

. 3149 
8/16/73 
-8-
shares of Southwest Savings and Loan Association, Phoenix, Arizona, 
rather than considering the question of the permissibility of this 
activity with each new application. The Division recommended approval 
a notice to this effect to be published in the Federal Register. 
Although a hearing had not been specifically recommended by 
the Legal Division, there was strong sentiment among Board members that 
the Board should hold a hearing for the purpose of enabling the Board 
subsequently to proceed with rulemaking concerning the permissibility 
this activity under Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies. It was 
emPhasized that the hearing should be conducted in general terms rather 
than concentrating on the merits of the American Fletcher Corporation 
aPplication. 
In the discussion, the Board considered a number of possible 
limitations that might be imposed.upon bank holding companies seeking 
t° acquire savings and loan associations, including (1) a condition 
that a proposed subsidiary could not operate in any geographic market 
which a banking subsidiary of the holding company operates, and (2) 
a condition that a bank holding company may not operate more than one 
savings and loan association. 
The Board unanimously agreed to hold such a hearing at the 
earliest possible date and authorized issuance of a notice to be published 
11 the Federal Register and a press release covering this matter. Copies 
a r e attached under Item No. 7. 

3150 
8/16/73 
-9-
Latin American Agribusiness Development Corporation. In a 
memorandum of July 23, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
recommended that, in response to a request from Latin American Agri-
business Development Corporation S.A. ("LAAD"), Miami, Florida, the 
^oard determine that continued holding of LAAD's stock by Edge corpo-
rations would be permissible after LAAD had acquired shares of Flores 
International Corporation, also of Miami, and had made other minority 
investments in similar types of companies. 
The Board unanimously approved the continued investment by Edge 
corporations in Latin American Agribusiness Development Corporation 
under the circumstances proposed by the corporation. A copy of the 
better sent to Latin American Agribusiness Development Corporation is 
attached as Item No. 8. 
P an American Bancshares. Two related applications had been 
Submitted by Pan American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida. 
In a memorandum of August 2, 1973, the Divisions of Research and 
Statistics and Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of an 
aPplication by Pan American Bancshares to acquire shares of Atico 
Fin 
nancial Corporation, also of Miami. The Board unanimously approved the 
aPPlication and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A c°Py is attached as Item No. 9. 
In a memorandum of July 27, 1973, the Legal Division and the 
^rvision 0f Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of an appli-
Cation by Pan American Bancshares to retain shares of Comercial Aseguradora 

3151 
8/16/73 
-10-
Suizo Americana, Guatemala City, Guatemala, and its wholly-owned 
subsidiary, Comercial Afianzadora, S.A., after the applicant acquired 
shares of their parent, Atico Financial Corporation, Miami, Florida. 
the basis of the inappropriateness of a bank holding company acquiring 
a foreign company engaged in general insurance underwriting, the Board 
unanimously denied the application. A copy of the letter sent to the 
applicant is attached as Item No. 10. 
The meeting then proceeded with limited staff attendance. 
Emergency credit assistance to savings and loan industry. In a 
memorandum of August 6, 19 73, the Committee on Federal Reserve Credit 
Recommended approval in principle of a proposed plan to provide emergency 
Credit assistance to the savings and loan industry, with a view toward 
further discussion and negotiation of the plan with officials of the 
federal Home Loan Bank Board. Additional documentation included a 
memorandum of August 15, 1973, from the Division of Research and Statis-
^cs, which discussed the current circumstances and future prospects 
°f the savings and loan industry. 
After discussion, the Board approved in principle the proposed 
with certain changes, it being understood that the plan would be 
revised accordingly and discussed by members of the Board's staff with 
rePresentatives of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the other members 
°f the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, and with 
aPpr0priate Federal Reserve Bank officials. 

I r. »> 
8/16/73 
-11-
First Wyoming Bancorporation—Kemmerer Corporation. In a 
memorandum of July 13, 1973, the Divisions of Research and Statistics 
ar*d Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of two related 
aPplications: (1) that of First Wyoming Bancorporation, Kemmerer, 
Wyoming, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares 
°f The First National Bank of Kemmerer, Kemmerer, Wyoming; and (2) that 
The Kemmerer Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of 
First Wyoming Bancorporation, on the condition that The Kemmerer Corpo-
ration ceases to be a bank holding company within one year from the 
date of the Board's orders. As a prerequisite to a decision on these 
aPPlications, the Legal Division in a memorandum of August 14, 1973, 
recommended that the Board determine that The Kemmerer Corporation had 
terminated control over The Wise County National Bank, Wise, Virginia. 
The Board determined that. The Kemmerer Corporation had terminated 
e°ntrol over The Wise County National Bank. A copy of the letter sent 
to The Kemmerer Corporation in this regard is attached as Item No. 11. 
Subsequently, the Board unanimously approved the application of First 
%°ming Bancorporation and conditionally approved the application of 
Kemmerer Corporation, and authorized issuance of orders reflecting 
decisions. Copies of the orders are attached as Items 12 and 13. 
A 
copy 0f t h e letter sent to The Kemmerer Corporation with respect to 
conditions upon which approval was based is attached as Item No. 14. 
Board's Phase IV salary guidelines. In a memorandum of August 15, 
the Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities recommended that 

3153 
8/16/73 
-12-
the Federal Reserve Banks be permitted to administer official and 
nonofficial salaries during Phase IV of the Economic Stabilization 
Program in accordance with the regulations of the Cost of Living 
Council. 
In his memorandum of August 15, 19 73, and in today's discussion, 
Governor Sheehan supported the Committee's recommendation, emphasizing 
the Banks' need to lessen their turnover rates and improve morale, and 
their need to increase salaries in order to bring them into closer 
alignment with community salary levels. Governor Sheehan noted that 
the Board's current position was more stringent than that of the Cost 
°f Living Council and the Federal Government as a whole. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the Committee's 
Proposal, on the understanding that only salaries of officers below 
Sa-lary Group A, excluding General Auditors, would be administered in 
aec°rdance with the Council's regulations. It was further understood 
that the authority delegated to the Committee to approve supplemental 
b a 
udget provisions for the second half of 1973 for any Federal Reserve 
^ank, branch, or facility that could not finance the additional salary 
Expenditure through a reordering of priorities was limited to $250,000 
,per Reserve Bank and would be exercised with utmost care. A copy of 
telegram sent to the Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 15. 
Requests for foreign missions. In a memorandum of August 15, 
•973, Mr> Irvine of the Division of International Finance reported on 

. 3154 
8/16/73 
-13-
two requests for Federal Reserve assistance to foreign central banks. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York had received a request from Banco 
de la Republica, the central bank of Colombia, for an expert in security 
batters. In addition, Governor Brimmer had received a request from 
the Minister of Finance of Liberia for assistance to the Liberia 
National Bank in organizing its research department; the request was 
a Federal Reserve representative to go to Liberia for two years. 
It was understood that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
w°uld make its Assistant General Auditor available to Banco de la 
Republica for a period of about one week. With respect to the request 
assistance to the Liberia National Bank, Mr. Irvine recommended 
that the Liberian Minister of Finance be advised to seek to make such 
arrangements through an international agency that would bear the costs 
associated therewith. 
The Board interposed no objection to the recommended disposition 
the two requests. Copies of letters sent to the New York Bank and 
the Minister of Finance of Liberia are attached as Items 16 and 17. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3155 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
8/16/73 
GENERAL FINANCIAL SYSTEMS 
Order Approving Retention of Bank 
General Financial Systems, Riviera Beach, Florida, a bank 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)) t o retaini^ 12,450 (24.9 per cent) of the voting shares of 
Xrl-City Bank, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida ("Bank") 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
0 n s t o submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a°ne has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tl 
itl light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842<C)). 
Applicant controls one bank, First Marine Bank & Trust Company 
O'Ri 
v i e*a Bank"), with deposits of about $58 million, which represents 
°Ximately 6.5 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the 
APPli< 
Board
 
C a n t acquired subject shares on August 9, 1971, without prior 
of Und
aPPr°val. on June 30, 1971, the Board, in order to avoid impositions 
U e hardship, published notice that any company which acquired a bank 
Hoard
Gn M e m b e r 31 1970, and June 22, 1971, without first securing prior 
f0t
 y approval because of lack of knowledge of that requirement might file 
Ug co 
approval by August 31, 1971c Applicant,"which became a bank hold-
tequi^Pany on December 31, 1970, apparently lacked knowledge of the Act's 
% l i c
G m e n t s at the time it acquired the shares of bank. Accordingly, the 
^Bister*00 V 3 S a c c eP t e d a n d appropriate notice was published in the Federal 
^ P P J f C a n t f i r s t 8 u b m i t t e d t h i s application in June, 1972. On December 14, 
uPd 
B o a r d permitted withdrawal of the application on condition that 
tn " t e d application be resubmitted by March 22, 1973 (subsequently extend-
Hay 22, 1973). 

- 2 -
3156 
W e s t Palm Beach County banking market-^ and only about three-tenths of 
1 Par cent of all such deposits in commercial banks in Florida* In 
0ddition, Applicant owns between 15 per cent and 24.9 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of each of eight other banks, with aggregate deposits of 
$l52 million, including four which are located in the West Palm Beach 
C°Utlty banking market. In addition to the 12,450 shares of Bank which 
applicant is applying to retain, two of Applicant's directors each own 
shares (.2 per cent) of the outstanding voting shares of Bank. 
Bank, with deposits of about $7 million, is the 22nd largest 
°f 2 7 commercial banks in the West Palm Beach County banking market. 
some service overlap exists between Bank and the other West 
m Beach County banks in which Applicant owns voting shares, such 
VG*lap involves chiefly commercial loans and real estate loans and 
*pParently results, in large measure, from loan participations between 
Bank 
* at*<l such other banks. Riviera Bank and Bank are situated more than 
e miles apart, and there is but minimal competition between these two 
Moreover, Bank, due to its size and location, does not appear to 
be 
a n attractive vehicle for entry into the West Palm Beach County bank-
ing 
^rket, nor does it preempt an attractive entry site. Retention by 
Ppll-cant of shares of Bank will not alter Applicant's market standing 
6aable Applicant to dominate any relevant market area. 
by the upper two-thirds of Palm Beach County. Banking 
are as of June 30, 1972, unless otherwise indicated. 

-3-
3157 
i 
Ji ' i 
The Board is advised th&t Applicant has previously engaged in 
Ce*tain nonbanking activities through corporate interests which were 
spun off to its shareholders on September 30, 1972, However, certain 
Sector interlocks and indebtedness relationships continue to exist, 
with respect to the transferee of such interests. Under section 2(g)(3) 
the Bank Holding Company Act, such relationships give rise to a 
PresumPtion of control of the transferee by Applicant unless the Board, 
a f t e r °Pportunity for hearing, determines that Applicant is not, in fact, 
CaPable of controlling the transferee. Applicant has expressed a willing-
C o terminate those interlocks, and no significant competitive factors 
e in relation to such nonbanking activities and Applicant's banking 
iut 
erests through the instant application. Accordingly, the Board believes 
the instant application may be approved without first determining 
th 
e section 2<g)<3) control issue; such determination shall be made 
Qt a later date. 
• 
\ 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, Riviera 
» and Bank are generally satisfactory. Considerations relating to 
th 
e convenience and needs of the community are consistent with approval. 
It 
the Board's judgment that retention is in the public interest and 
that th 
ct*e application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
e r®asons summarized above. 
By order of the Board of Governors,effective August IS, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
BUc. tir*g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
er» and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

3158 
Item No. 2 
8/16/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED BANKS OF COLORADO, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Banks of Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, has applied 
°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act 
TT u.s.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
rr 
United Bank of Skyline, National Association, Denver, Colorado 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Pers0n 
s to submit comments and views has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(M 
, 
' °t the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
Board has considered the application and all comments received 
Xl8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
Applicant controls 13 banks with aggregate deposits of $880.5 
^presenting about 14.5 per cent of deposits of commercial banks 
iri Color ^ 
and is the second largest banking organization in the State.1/ 
•^lon of Bank (deposits of $4.5 million) would not significantly 
e the concentration of banking resources in Colorado.2/ 
^ i T i r - r 
n°te<j 
anking data are as of December 31, 1972, except where otherwise 
represent bank holding company formations and acquisitions 
e d by the Board through June 30, 1973. 
H o s i t figures for 3ank are as of June 1, 1973. 

3159 
-2-
Applicant has four banking subsidiaries including its lead 
kank -i u 
J-n the relevant banking market „_3/ However, existing competition 
e t W e e n Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Bank is not substantial. 
Bank was chartered on March 30, 1973, by the Comptroller of 
the CiiT>-
UI-rency under emergency conditions as a successor organization to 
Skyiii National Bank ("Skyline") which had experienced financial dif-* 
cities and was closed on March 26, 1973. The present management 
of Ba , 
"K was brought in from other subsidiary banks of Applicant in 
mPlation of the acquisition of Bank by Applicant. Bank is located 
in t-u 
e Skyline urban renewal area of Denver where extensive construction 
a l r e a dy under way or planned, and as this area develops there will 
Creased need for Bank's services. On the other hand, during an 
^terim 
in Period, it is important that Bank be supported by a strong 
2ation such as Applicant since its growth potential is limited. 
b*nk 
For all practical purposes, Bank may be considered a de novo 
> its deposits were $6 million as of April, 1973, but they declined 
to $4 5 
miln o n in two months' time. Even this deposit figure may be 
ated since a large part of this deposit base is made up of public 
n d there is no certainty of renewal. Applicant controls about 
Per cent of the deposits in the relevant market, and the acqui-
8iti0ri 
Bank's deposits would add less than one-half of 1 per cent 
ue r^i 
ievant banking market is approximated by Denver, Adams, Arapahoe 
te*son Counties. 

3160 
-3-
market share to Applicant's control. Applicant would not be obtaining 
a dominant position in the market through acquisition of Bank since it 
0uld remain as the second largest banking organization in a market 
^ch has several other banking organizations of moderate size. Moreover, 
UlQerous independent banks would remain available in the market for 
^uisition by holding companies located outside the Denver area. 
Board concludes that competitive considerations are consistent 
Wittl aPProval of the acquisition. 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and future 
3Pects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as satis-
t 0 r y- 
Bank is entirely dependent upon the financial and managerial 
SuPport f 
or Applicant and with this support its prospects are favorable. 
factor lends strong weight in support of approval. Factors related 
to the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served lend weight 
for PProval of the acquisition since Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
vUl e Su^e that Bank will be able to provide continued service in a 
1 l n8 area of Denver. It is the Board's judgment that consum-
ption of 
u r the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
t h 
application should be approved. 
the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the tea 
sons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) ^ 
°re the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this ord e r or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 

i 
3161 
-4-
t h i s °rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,4/ effective August 16, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
ESEAL] 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Vher i n g f° r t h l S a c t i o n : 
and Holland. 
Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane 

3162 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/16/73' 3 
NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION 
Order Conditionally Approving Acquisition of 
T. G. Evensen & Associates, Inc. 
Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, a bank holding 
°mPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
fo 
the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
225»4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
r. G. Evensen & Associates, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota 
^ Evensen"), a company that engages in the activity of providing finan-
cial 
advice to State and local governmental units. Such activity has 
G n determined by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 
225'4<*)(5)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Per8o 
C o submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
d 
UJ-y published (37 Federal Register 5775). The time for filing 
conunGnt and views has expired, and the Board has considered all comments 
» including those received at an oral presentation on the appli-
cation 
^ 
> held at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on October 17, 
the light of the public interest factors set forth in section 
^(c) (ox of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)). 
1/ 
Applicant controls 79 banks 
located in Minnesota, Montana, 
aska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin, and Iowa, with aggregate 
SoQltq °f $4.8 billion. Forty-nine of the banks are located in the 
t o
r e i s presently pending before the Board an application by Appli-
deP08it
 G c^ u i re one bank located in the State of Iowa, with aggregate 
approximately $75 million. Applicant recently received 
al to acquire two other banks in Iowa with deposits of $43 million. 

. 31G3 
-2-
state of Minnesota and together hold total deposits amounting to $2.78 
b iUion or approximately 24 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
In 
the State, 
Applicant is the second largest banking organization 
in the State of Minnesota. 
Evensen advises State and local governmental units in Minnesota, 
bacons in, North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa, and Nebraska. More than 
7 0 Per cent of its business derives from clients in the State of 
nesota, and, during 1971, Evensen advised on 20.8 per cent of the 
bonds i 
issued by State and local government units in Minnesota, based on 
h e face amount of such bond issues. Evensen, with gross receipts of 
>000 for its fiscal year ended September 30, 1971, ranks as the 
8est such bond adviser in Minnesota. 
Although subsidiaries of Applicant engage in the underwriting of 
rtain State and local government bond issues and the provision of 
Elated services to issuers of such securities, neither Applicant nor 
any Q-
its subsidiaries engage in the business of providing advice con-
8 bond issuance to State and local governments. Evensen does not 
e In the underwriting of bond issues nor any other activity engaged 
Applicant, Accordingly, consummation of the proposed transaction 
W°uld h ave no adverse effect on existing competition in any line of 
COllllllerCG 
rn , 
io the contrary, such consummation may have a beneficial effect 
p 
®ting competition by foreclosing the possibility of a merger of 
^Posit data are as of December 31, 1972. 

31G4 
-3-
^ V e n s e n with one of its existing competitors. Each of Evensen's princi-
pal 
competitors, prior to the making of this application, separately 
°^fered to acquire the shares that Applicant here seeks to acquire. 
In the Board's opinion, Applicant is not a likely de novo entrant 
tftt 
0 State and local governmental bond issuance advising. The economic 
n°entive for such entry is not great, as may be adduced from the fact 
there are only six firms in the nation engaged solely in this line 
commerce. Evensen itself has been in the business for forty-four 
Veats nrij 
ana is considered a major bond consultant in the Minneapolis area. 
it 
» -lus average annual earnings over the last five years approximate 
only $A7 
The barriers to entry into the bond consultant business 
hioh 
§n> not in terms of capital and licenses, but rather in terms of 
the 
degree of highly-specialized expertise necessary to properly advise 
state a nj local governmental units on the issuance of bonds. It appears 
fchat 8 u 
uccessful advising requires a combination of skills in the assess-
of f« 
financial needs of clients, familiarity with public finance and 
8> and a thorough and current knowledge of bond markets. In 
» considerably more is required of a qualified bond adviser than 
Quired of a bond salesman. The Board has no doubt that Applicant 
has tll 
e financial and managerial resources to eventually develop the 
expertise within its own organization. However, absent the 
8 away of qualified personnel from existing firms, it may take a 
cabie time to do so and significant losses may be expected to be 

_ 8165 
-4-
incurred during the start-up period, Given the lack of significant profit 
Potential described above, it is the Board's judgment that the likelihood 
^at Applicant will pursue the de novo route is remote. 
Three competitors of Evensen and one bank engaged in the under-
siting of State and local governmental bond issues (hereinafter collec-
U v e l y referred to as "the protestants") have opposed the subject 
^Plication asserting that consummation of the proposed transaction would 
**QVe t h e possible adverse effects of conflicts of interests, misuse of 
°nfldential information, and unfair competition, However, the protes-
atlta h a ve expressly indicated that they in no way question the ethics or 
inj. 
^grity of either Applicant or Evensen, which are of the highest order, 
er> their concern, as is that of the Bank Holding Company Act, is 
vtth " possible adverse effects". Briefly stated, the protestants contend 
hat 
anV affiliation between a bond issuance adviser and a bank holding 
^Pany creates conflicts of interests, primarily between the advisory 
and the roles of subsidiaries of the holding company as potential 
de*writers, paying agents, depositories of bond proceeds, and invest-
ment °utlets for bond proceeds. In the case of any such affiliation, 
ey 
to 
they contend, an economic incentive is present for the affiliated adviser 
fal 
laify, distort or withhold information from,and color or frame 
co, State and local governmental units in such a way as to 
those clients either to utilize the services of the affiliates 
0f th 
e adviser where independent advice and information would suggest 

31WS 
-5-
otherwise or to take those services on terms or conditions less favorable 
to the client than might be obtainable by the client were it to receive 
°bjective advice. The protestants further contend that, as a result of 
e affiliation, Applicant's subsidiaries possibly would have access to 
c°nfidential information, provided to Evensen by State and local govern-
ments» and that access to such information could give Applicant's 
Subsidiaries unfair advantages over their competitors, particularly in 
the 
area of bidding on bond issues and the formation of underwriting 
8Vndicates. The consequence of such possibilities, should they come 
t o tuition, would enable Applicant to subsidize the fees of Evensen 
the revenues derived from such activities, according to the 
protestants, with the ultimate consequence of threatening the survival 
of 
protestants that compete with Evensen. Thus, they contend, the 
affiliation creates a possibility for unfair competition. 
Section 4(c)(8) of the Act directs the Board to consider 
P° 8 S i b l e" adverse effects of proposed acquisitions. However, the 
DlCUnt o f weight to be accorded to "possible" adverse effects in the 
baian 
n6 process that is contemplated by section 4(c)(8) depends 
^itecti 
—^ 
LAy upon the likelihood of the occurrence of such effects. 
Pre-
^ably the business ethics of both Evensen and Applicant and the likeli-
hood 
» attested to by both sides of the instant controversy, that, should 
af£iliated adviser engage in any of the questionable practices asserted 
Of Ucwnteraent ° f B o a r d accompanying Order Conditionally Approving Proposal 
^B Corporation to Operate a Trust Company in South Carolina, 1973 
Bulletin 305, at 306 (March 9, 1973). 

31G7 
by the protestants, its reputation would be so damaged as to bring into 
4/ 
^ estion its future business survival," lessen the likelihood that 
p0ssible conflicts of interests would be realized. 
Of the more than 2500 issues on which Evensen has advised over 
the 
e Past 43 years, 98 per cent were sold on the basis of published 
Citation for competitive sealed bids. The competitors of Evensen that 
a v e objected to this application have admitted that they have had a 
3imiiar experience. In fact, even where competitive bids are not required 
by i 
» it is Evensen's general practice, as well as that of the adviser 
d U 8 t r y generally, to recommend the use of competitive bid procedures 
t h e case of all issues with general market appeal. Where such pro-
cures are used, the ability of the adviser to unfairly influence the 
issuer f 
in the selection of an underwriter is therefore considerably 
nished. However, where competitive bid procedures are not used, that 
where issues are sold by negotiation between the issuer and possible 
Writers, the possibility of undue influence by the adviser is both 
U s and real. The Board, therefore, in approving this application, 
8 such action on Applicant and its subsidiaries refraining from 
cipation in the sale of Evensen-advised issues that are not sold 
PUlf8Ua 
to competitive bids. In addition, in order to ensure the confi-
^ 
l aUty of information in Evensen's possession, the Board conditions 
PProval on Evensen refraining from making any information with respect 
to its 
clients available to Applicant or its subcidiarJ.es not available at 
Q 
time to others. 
tax-. m a y a c c o u n t for the fact that, despite the provision of advice 
Ptote8tGXenipt: b o n d i s 8 u e r s by many municipal bond underwriters, the 
n° ^ t u ^ 8 ' u n d e r direct questioning at the oral presentation, cited 
Q l instance of the abuses alleged. 

7 
31G8 
Conflicts of interests between Applicant's dual role as adviser-
Paying agent, adviser-depository, and adviser-investment outlet may 
arise if Evensen, as a subsidiary of Applicant, advises issuers as to 
the selection of paying agents, depositories, or investment outlets. 
However, it is Evensen*s general practice and that of the adviser industry, 
generally, to recommend that the purchaser of the bonds, rather than the 
issuer, designate the paying agent. This being the case, it appears 
that Evensen has no influence over such designation. Similarly, it is 
Jensen's general practice to refrain from participation in the selection 
o f depositories for the proceeds of bond issues, and, rather than recom-
mend a particular interim investment for the proceeds of an issue until 
needed, to recommend that the issuer seek informal competitive bids for 
8 U c h proceeds and accept that bid providing the highest return. However, 
ere is nothing to assure that Evensen's present practices in these 
re§ard8 would continue if the proposed transaction is consummated. 
Th 
before, the Board conditions its approval of the instant application 
uPon the continuation of these practices. Further, the Board believes 
ttlQt prospective clients should be alerted to the affiliation of Evensen 
a n d Appn c a n t a n d a^ s o conditions its approval upon the requirement that 
8uch affiliation be clearly disclosed on all advertising and letterheads. 
addition, in order to obviate any possibility that Evensen will com-
pete unfairly with its other competitors, the Board conditions its 
aPproval upon the requirement that Evensen shall continue to offer its 
ervices on an explicit fee basis. 

-8-
31G9 
In accordance with the Congressional directive contained in 
Action 4(c)(8), the Board has exaaiined the public benefits that may be 
e*Pected to result from approval of the application and finds that they 
°utwaigh any "possible adverse effects", especially in view of the con-
ditions that the Board is imposing as part of its approval. In the 
Board's judgment, Applicant's acquisition of Evensen will enable Evensen 
to ^graphically expand into areas where issuers are not presently 
8ecved by advisors. The benefit to the public from sound financial 
^agement of State and municipal finances is obvious, and needs no 
detaiiecj explanation here; an expansion in the supply of competent 
ancial advice to meet such needs is, therefore, a strong public benefit. 
Urthermore, consummation would make available to Evensen capital and 
othe. 
resources to maintain and increase Evensen's specialized staff, 
^Ptove and expand its product market and, in some measure, provide an 
ly solution to a management succession problem occasioned by the age 
Onsen's founder and sole owner. 
Before, during, and after the oral presentation held at the Federal 
Bank of Minneapolis, referred to above, protestants raised two 
°cedurai objections to the Board's processing of this application: 
ru 
Atley contended the Board should have held a formal trial-type hearing 
Hth r1 . 
x8ht to cross-examine and subpoena witnesses; and (2) that the 
1 8 regulation (section 225.4(a)(5) of Regulation Y) which permits 
k^k h 
n°lding companies, subject to the provisions of section 225„4(b), 
Provide financial advice to State and local governments, was improperly 

3170 
-9-
adopted and should be declared invalid. The Board believes that both of 
8uch contentions are without substance and, for the reasons hereinacter 
8tated, protestants1 requests that a formal hearing be held and for 
Validation of section 225.4(a)(5) are denied. 
Prior to 1970, section 4(c)(8) permitted the Board to act only 
after due notice and hearing, and on the basis of the record made at 
8U°h h e a r l n 8 by order. . .". That section m o specifically amended by 
the 
e Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 to delete the requirement 
that 
the Board act only after a hearing and "on the basis of the record" 
Such hearing. Accordingly, since the hearing requirements of the 
milUstrative Procedure Act apply only to a "case of adjudication 
a by statute to bo determined on the record" (5 U.S.C. 554(a)), 
the Board a 
a does not believe a formal trial-type hearing is required where 
Protest 
8 are filed to an application under section 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
purther 
» a review of the 196-p*ge transcript of the oral presentation 
that W a a . 
a t t h e Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and the voluminous 
onal exhibits and briefs submitted by participants leads the Board 
to 
c ude that the Board's procedures in this case met the Congressional 
^tfcnt- . 
oti of providing "opportunity for hearing" in section 4(c)(8) of the 
and di 
id not deprive the protestants of their "due process of law" 
n8ht a 
provided by the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution. 
b 
^Qational Bank of Little Rock v. Board of Governors of the 
faj 
—-
•^Mgserve System. 451 F. 2d 86 (8th Gir. 1971); Kirsch v. Board of 
lorn r\ C i Federal Reserve System. 353 F. 2d 353 (6th Cir. 1965); 

3171 
-10-
^ 
Bancorporation v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
•S^tem. 303 F. 2d 832 (8th Gir. 1962). In addition, protestants miscon-
st*ue the Board's Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings (12 CFR 263) as 
authorizing subpoena of witnesses. Those Rules (12 CFR 263.7) authorize 
the 
e subpoena of witnesses only where the statute, pursuant to which a 
c 
®a hearing is held, authorizes subpoena of witnesses; the Bank 
H°lding Company Act contains no such authorization. 
The Board has also considered protestants' claim that they need 
Right of cross-examination to bring out certain information with 
S P e C t t o t h e ^Plication (transcript pages 157-59, and 172; protestants' 
m°randum in Opposition to Application, pages 8, 13, and 19). The Board 
ncluded that such issues are either immaterial to the Board's decision, 
^te n 
susceptible to cross-examination, or have been rendered moot in 
g h t of the Board's conditional approval. 
In sum, the Board concludes that protestants were given ample 
rtunity to be heard, that their views were fully considered and 
od by the Board in reaching its decision, that they are not 
Sail 
y entitled to a formal trial-type hearing, and that it would have 
8etVed n 
° useful purpose to hold such a hearing in connection with this 
N a t i o n . 
In addition, protestants question the validity of the Board's 
June 6, 1972 (37 F.R. 11771) when it amended section 225.4(a)(5) ' 
Sulatton Y to, inter alia, specifically provide that bank holding 
may, subject to the procedures of section 225.4(b), "act as 

-11-
Vestment or financial adviser to the extent of. c . (v) providing 
fin 
-^-^BSial advice to State and W a l governments, such as with respect to 
^^Igsuance of their securities". (Emphasis added) Prior to the amend-
6nt> the Regulation was more generally worded and contained the word 
deluding" after "acting as investment or financial adviser" rather than 
the 
e m°re limiting term "to the extent of". At the time of the 1972 
^ftdment, the Board stated that its purpose was "to indicate in more 
P e°ise terms [the Board's] intent in permitting bank holding companies 
to 
a c t 'as investment or financial adviser"' and that the Administrative 
°cedure Act requirements of notice and public participation "were not 
owed with respect to this matter because it clarifies rather than 
& e s a substantive rule". A review of the history of this regulatory 
PtOvigj 
1Qn indicates that the requirements of the Administrative Procedure 
Act f r notice and public comment and hearing were clearly followed by 
B°ard with respect to the adoption of section 225.4(a) in 1971 and 
th 
regulation, as then adopted, would have permitted the activity 
^stion. Accordingly, and for other reasons, the Board is of the 
cnat its 1972 action was within the exemption provided by 
011 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act for "interpretive 
Q*id that prior notice and public participation was unnecessary, 
i ~ 
^-SSSal-Oil Co. v. Burns, 317 F. Supp. 194 (D. C. Del. 1970); 
^ - ^ U J f g ^ C o . v. Dillon, 313 F. 2d 899 (D. C. D. C. 1963); Sav-On 
v. Cunes, 12 P & F Admin. Law 2d 848 (D. C. N. J. 1962) 

31 
-12-
Purthermore, even assuming arguendo that the Board's 1972 action was 
invalid, protestants may not be heard to complain because the Board has 
the authority to proceed with respect to applications under section 
^(<0(8) "by order or regulation" and, as indicated above, protestants 
^aVe haA 
nad ample opportunity to participate in this proceeding. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
he record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
n t e r e s t factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved, provided; 
Vensen shall not make available to Applicant or its other subsidi-
a r y 
any information with respect to its clients not available at the 
wie to others; (2) the affiliation of Evensen and Applicant 
StlaU h clearly disclosed on all advertising and letterheads; (3) 
n S e n shall continue to offer its services on an explicit fee basis; 
where Evensen-advised issues are not to be sold pursuant to 
c°tnpetit. 
e olds, Applicant and its other subsidiaries may not partici-
pate jn their sale; and (5) Evensen shall continue its practices of 
(1) re 
commending that the purchaser of the bonds be authorized to name 
paVing agent; (ii) refraining from participation in the selection of 
4 d®P08it ry f o r the bond proceeds; and (iii) recommending that the issuer 
u j 
, 
a s before selecting an interim investment outlet for bond pro-
Anis order is also subject to the conditions set forth in 
^ ion 0 o c 
4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require 

ol'r'4 
-13-
such modification or termination of the activities of a holding company 
any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure com-
pliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
The transaction shall not be consummated later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Pursuant to delegated authority granted herewith. 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 16, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
—'—--
Bu , V o t i n 8 f o r t h i s action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Sheehan, 
cher, and Holland. Voting against this action: Governor Brimmer. 
n t and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

3175 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I would deny this application. Northwest Bancorporation is a 
^established multi-bank holding company with excellent management 
a n d large financial resources. It is the second largest banking organi-
ation in the State of Minnesota and also controls banks in Montana, 
Neb 
raska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Iowa. I share the 
flf A.L. 
1 t h e majority that there are possible adverse effects from 
Nation of this acquisition (and I concur in their efforts to 
Qlmize such possible adverse effects). However, I disagree with my 
lleagues as to their conclusion that the benefits to the public would 
outwe-tou 
Agn such adverse effects. 
In my opinion, Applicant has the financial and managerial 
te8ourcen f 
co commence this activity de novo. Further, if it is to pursue 
the a c 
cquisition route, it should not be permitted to acquire the largest 
Pendent firm in the market. Either the de novo route or the acqui-
8^tion 0f a . 
a less prominent firm would have a more beneficial effect on 
petition for these services than is presented by the present applica-
U o t u 
A 
Congress has recognized: 
"On 
c
 
e o f t h e asserted justifications for permitting bank holding 
i n d
p a n i e s to engage in activities that the Board has determined 
i n t
e p e n d e ntly to be closely related to banking, is to permit the 
5 o d u c t i°n of new innovative and competitive vigor into those 
com
 
W h i c h c o u l d benefit therefrom. Where a bank holding 
C e r
P a n y er*ters a market through acquisition of a major going con-
n> it may not have the incentive to compete vigorously, 
"ereby bringing 
the possible benefits into play, as it would 
the 
a t e l y 8 u c c e e d t o w h a t it: might consider its fair share of 
etit 
0 n t h e other hand, where a bank holding company 
r 8 a n e w market de novo, or through acquisition of a small 
itg01* a s opposed to acquisition of a substantial competitor, 
eom 
t o 8 u c c e e d i n i t a n e w endeavor is more likely to be 
p a8e en) 1 V e*" 
( H # R e p # N<5# 1 7 4 7' 9 l 8 t Co*g-> 2 d Se8fl• a t 

_ 3176 
In the delicate weighing process that the Board is compelled 
t 0 Undertake in an application of this kind, I do not find that the 
P U b l i c benefits present in this application are strong enough to sustain 
lts approval. 
A u8vis t 16, 1973 

3177 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 4 
.8/16/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 16, 1973 
Terrence O'Loughlin, Esq. 
pitman, Geraghty, Mulally & Weiss 
'07 Degree of Honor Building 
^ 
Cedar Street 
paul, Minnesota 55101 
Mr. O'Loughlin: 
. . 
Enclosed please, find a copy of the Board's Order of 
l s date conditionally approving the application of Northwest 
^incorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire shares of 
d e w ^ V c n s e n & Associates, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, and 
your request that a formal hearing be held to consider 
r t a i n aspects of the application. Also enclosed are copies 
the Dissenting Statement of Governor Brimmer and the Board's 
0 0 release relating to this action. 
cl. 
The Board is grateful for the expression of your 
G n t s views on this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Encl0s ure 
« 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
3178 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
O F 
T H E 
A D D R E S S ornciAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 16, 1973 
Richard 11. Kyle, Esq. 
^ri8gs and Morgan 
2200 First National Bank Building 
Saint Paul, Minnesota 55101 
Mr. Kyle: 
Enclosed please find a copy of the Board's Order of -
^is date, conditionally approving the application of Northwest 
^corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire shares oi 
T* G- Evensen & Associates, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
denying your requests that a formal hearing be held to con-
f e r aspects of the application and that section 22^.4(a) O ) 
of the Board's Regulation Y be held invalid. Also enclosed 
ar- copies of the Dissenting Statement of Governor Brimer 
a n d of the Board's press release relating to these matters. 
The Board is grateful for the expression of the views 
of your clients in this natter. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary to the Board 
Closure 

3 1 7 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m Nq^ 5 
8/16/73 
SOUTH CAROLINA NATIONAL CORPORATION 
°rder Approving Acquisition of Provident Financial Corporation 
South Carolina National Corporation, Columbia, South Carolina, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 
225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
share 
e s of the successor by merger to Provident Financial Corporation, San-
e 
X » North Carolina, ('Company") a company that engages in the activities 
(1) consumer finance activities through wholly-owned subsidiaries licensed 
n N°rth Carolina and South Carolina, and in connection therewith acting as 
° r broker in (a) the sale of credit life and credit accident and health 
Surance and (b) the sale of casualty insurance protecting property securing 
subsidiaries' extensions of credit; (2) reinsuring credit life and credit 
ent and health insurance sold by the operating subsidiaries as agent or 
( 3 ) 
financing second mortgages and sale of monthly reducing term life 
C e related thereto; and (4) financing insurance premiums for indivi-
° n Policies issued by unaffiliated insurance companies. Such activi-
ifcg v, 
V e been determined by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 
CPR 225 // x 
, 
J,£Ka)(l),(9) a n d (10)). The company into which Company is to be 
has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition 
Of th 
e v°ting shares of Company. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of 
V e 8 
ot the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed acqui-
8itt on of the shares of Company. 

3180 
- 2 -
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Pe*sons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 10512). The time for filing comments 
ari(i views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls one bank with aggregate deposits of $664.6 
^ U o n , representing 20.7 per cent of the total South Carolina commercial 
bank deposits. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972). Applicant 
als° controls one nonbanking subsidiary, South Carolina Mortgage Corporation 
"^kes second mortgage real estate loans. 
Company has total assets of $17 million. Its principal active 
Subsidiary is F i r s t Pr0vident Company, Inc. ("First Provident") which engages 
trt 
c°nsumer finance activities through 25 subsidiaries located in North and 
S°Uth Ca*olina and had total loans outstanding of about $13 million as of 
June 30, 1972. Two other subsidiaries of Company, both of which operate in 
°rth Carolina only, are Provident Mortgage Company, Inc., a second mortgage 
teai estate lender that makes loans to individuals only up to $7,500, and 
Hot0r 
r G^edit Company of Dunn, Inc., which is licensed to make loans up to 
secured by motor vehicles. In addition Company is engaged, through 
e m i u m Acceptance Company (a single office company located in Richmond, 
r8inia) s i n f i n a n c i n g insurance premiums in Virginia for individuals on 
p0Uci 
i e s issued by unaffiliated agents and unaffiliated insurance companies. 
Pany> through Southern Provident Life Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona, 
reinsures credit life and credit accident and health insurance policies 
by unaffiliated companies to customers of Provident's lending sub-
les* The insurance agency activities of all of Company's subsidiaries 
$5>000 

: 
3 i 8 i 
are as follows: First Provident, Motor Credit Company of Dunn, and Provident 
Mort8age Company all act as agents in the sale of credit life insurance in 
Section with their extensions of credit, the former two sell credit acci-
derit and health insurance, and First Provident also sells casualty insurance 
Pledged collateral. 
Applicant is not engaged in consumer finance lending activities in 
N°rth Carolina. In South Carolina, Applicant's banking subsidiary has offices 
ln f°ur counties in which First Provident also has offices. (In those counties, 
°ne °ffice of First Provident opened in October 1972 and the other three offices 
tQtal approximate outstanding loans ranging from $190,000 to $270,000.) 
aPPears that First Provident is engaged in making small, high risk, per-
0naX loansM Consummation of the proposal would not appear to eliminate 
leant. existing competition or affect adversely the competitive 
Uation in any relevant area. 
In view of First Provident's relatively 
sniaii 
amount of total receivables, the number and size of intervening finance 
Patlies, and banks, and ease of entry in the consumer finance field, 
aPPears that consummation will not likely have a significantly adverse 
Effect 
future competition, even though Applicant appears to possess 
ces to enter the market de novo. Nor does it appear that consummation 
*Ul ad, 
QVersely affect the availability of funds to other consumer finance 
•Lea' Accordingly, the Board concludes that approval of the application 
in8ofar as it relates to the finance company subsidiaries of Company would 
n°t ap 
pear to have any significant adverse effect on existing or future 
p ^ h ^ — — 
S n coTlaXiinuin Permissible interest charge in South Carolina for small 
apparently starts at a 36 per cent add-on rate for a $100 
dr°Ps steadily until the loan size reaches $1,000. The effective 
1°* a 2date remains constant at 12 per cent for any loan up to $4,000. 
' o u ^ t h installment loan, the annual percentage rate of interest 
y 1-3/4 times the add-on rate. 

3182 
-4-
There is no existing competition between Applicant and any of Com-
Pany's subsidiaries engaged in insurance premium financing, reinsurance activi-
ties> and second mortgage real estate lending. Applicant does not appear to 
6 a likely de novo entrant into these activities and, in any event, the 
e 
business held by the subsidiaries is very small and significant future 
^Petition apparently will not develop. Accordingly, the Board concludes that 
Pproval of the application insofar as it realtes to the reinsurance, premium 
^ itianci 
ln&> and second mortgage subsidiaries of Company would appear to have 
sipn-if., 
fc leant adverse effect on existing or future competition. 
Applicant's 
greater access to financial resources may assure Com-
pany of 
"lore ready access to funds and enable it to become a more effective 
P e t i t o r> and thus increase public convenience and stimulate competition 
af filiates of larger regional and national financial organizations active 
ln b°th th c 
tne finance company and mortgage company industries in the relevant 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the 
0rd. th 
the Bo, 
* the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest factors 
a r d is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable with respect to 
the Pr 
Posed finance company, mortgage company and insurance agency activities. 
As in past cases where credit life and credit accident and health 
^ 
a^ce underwriting activities were acquired, the Board must be satisfied 
116 Public interest is met. Applicant has stated that the reinsurance 
y and the direct insurer, will (1) reduce the rates charged and (2) 

3183 
-5-
9 / 
n a t e certain exclusions,- so as to achieve combined actuarily perceived 
k^nefits amounting to 20 per cent. It is the Board's judgment that these 
benefit-
c s to the public are consistent with approval of the application. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the 
» the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest factors 
tlle Board -i 
is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) is favorable. Accord-
ingly » c n e application is hereby approved. This determination is subject to 
the 
Editions set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's 
authoritv i-
y to require such modification or termination of the activities of 
8 company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to 
a3aure 
ornPliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
reSulati 0 n s a n d orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. This 
trar*8actin 
°n shall not be consummated later than three months after the effective 
date of thi « 
"is Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^effective August 16, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
( s e a L ] 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
1 1 a p K I 
testrictl
ant 
(1) increase the age limit or remove it; (2) remove 
a? intent?118 3 n d e x c e P t i o n s o n geographical limitations, military service, 
alcoh01. 
self-inflicted injury, air travel, and use of narcotics and 
0,r te^ove
 
r e d u c e o r remove the incontestability clause; and (4) modify 
the policy provisions relating to pre-existing conditions. 
— 
^an and 
t h i s a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane 
Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer and Holland. 

3184 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/16/73 
FIRST NATIONAL BOSTON CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National Boston Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, a 
batlk Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a S a pP Ued for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
^2(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (exclusive of directors' 
q alifying shares) of the successor by merger to the Holyoke National Bank, 
01yoke, Massachusetts ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged 
n° significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the 
itig a h a res of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of 
Accessor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of 
the ^ares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons tn 
submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
o f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
fltid 
°ard has considered the application and all comments received in 
li8ht o f 
£ 
cne factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization and bank holding 
C0TnPany in M 
n Massachusetts, controls one bank with aggregate deposits of 
b t m ion representing about 23 per cent of total deposits in com-
^ctai b i, 
1/ 
anks in the State. 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank (deposits 
R ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 
npany^fo8 d a t a a r e a S ° f J u n e 30» 1 9 7 2» a di u s t e d t o reflect holding 
Nations and acquisitions approved through July 31, 1973, 

3185 
-2-
0 f $26,9 million) would increase its share of Statewide deposits by 
t ; 
2/ 
2 
Percentage points and would not result in any significant increase 
i n the concentration of banking resources in Massachusetts. 
Bank is the fourth largest of fifteen commercial banking organi-
2ations competing in the Springfield-Chicopee-Holyoke banking market (which 
ls aPproximated by the Springfield SMSA), controlling 4 per cent of market 
GP°sits. Applicant's closest existing subsidiary banking office is 
l°cated more than 90 miles from Bank, and it appears that there is no sig-
lficant existing competition between Bank and any of Applicant's sub-
a r y b«nking offices. Due to the distance separating bank and Applicant's 
& subsidiary banking offices and Massachusetts' restrictive branch-
e s laws, 
» it appears unlikely that any significant competition would develop 
m i 
banks 
the institutions in the future. Additionally, the three largest 
the market control more than 76 per cent of such deposits and 
ummation of the proposal would have a procompetitive effect by en-
cine Bank's ability to compete with the larger institutions. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
^Ppli 
cant and its subsidiary bank are satisfactory and consistent with 
aPproval 
ti 
u 
Bank faces a management succession problem. It is expected that 
APpliCa n c will take steps to resolve Bank's management succession problem 
thi 
8 factor lends some weight toward approval of the application. 
0t*er c 
°nsiderations with respect to the financial and managerial re-
ao^cea a . , 
and future prospects of Bank are consistent with approval. 
this date, the Board approved Applicant's acquisition of 
C°mpan
 r s t Bank and Trust Company of Wellesley and Burlington Bank and Trust 
y» Which together control 0.? perccnt-nge points of Statewide deposits. 

3186 
-3-
Applicant proposes to offer through Bank new and improved 
Services, including increased interest rates on savings deposits, 
additional types of consumer installment loans, and automated payroll 
8e*vices. Since some of the proposed new services are not currently 
Mailable in Holyoke, consummation of this proposal will increase the 
c°nvenience of Holyoke residents. Accordingly, considerations relating 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served are con-
to the 
n t with and lend some weight toward approval of the application. 
Xt 4 
S tllG Board's judgment that the transaction is in the public interest 
and should be approved. 
°n the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) 
c°re the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
> unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
this 
t h t s Order 
°r bV the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective September 4, 1973, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
fSEAL] 
f' V°tin8 for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
n e r and Holland, Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

Item No-. 7 
P0 
8/16/73 
°r Mediate release 
August 20, 1973 
^ e Board of Governors of the Federal n.eserve System today invited 
and ordered a hearing to begin October 30 on an application by a bank 
company to acquire a savings and loan association. 
The activity of operating a savings and loan association has not 
ln detei 
in 
er^ined by the Board to be closely related to banking. Consequently, 
Section with this application, the Board will also consider whether 
t0 
on 
peration of an S&L to its list of activities that are closely related 
to banici 
8 and permissible for acquisition by a bank holding company, subject 
t0 Bo*rd 
^PProval in individual cases, 
^he applicant in this case., American Fletcher Corporation, Indian-
a p ou S ) x 
' ndiana, is seeking to acquire voting shares of the Southwest Savings 
Loari As 
s°ciation, Phoenix, Arizona. 
PvGquests to testify at the hearing should be submitted to the 
&1(V 
;tt>b 
ry 
the Board by October 1. The hearing will be held before available 
er 
l 
the Board commencing at 10:00 a.m. on October 30 at the Board s 
St
 
2°th Street and Constitution Avenue, N. W., in Washington, D.C. 
Anient 
to. . 
aild comments on the issues will be received by the Board through 
In • 
L 
invi.ting comment and ordering a hearing at this time, the Board 
foe 
' 
u s Public attention on the important issues involved in the 
sibi 
S m i 
a^i-liation of banks and savings and loan associations. Specifically, 
action was taken pursuant to a provision of its Regulation Y which 

- 
2 
-
tes that any bank holding company may apply to the Board to engage in an 
tivity it believes to be closely related to banking, even though the activity 
deluded specifically in the Board's list of permissible activities. 
Station states that applications of this type will be processed under 
the 
Sacne Procedures that apply to applications to acquire an established 
er*£aged in a permissible activity that is closely related to banking. 
The Board took no position on the issues at this time. 
In addition to inviting comment on the general issue of affiliation 
25 and loan associations with bank holding companies, the Board will 
wnether certain specific limitations should be imposed upon bank 
°i«panies seeking to enter this field. One possible question to be 
54 wnetner a bank holding company should be permitted to operate 
s c t 
and a bank in the same geographic market. Another is whether 
should limit acquisitions of S&Ls to one per bank holding company. 
The application from American Fletcher may be inspected at the 
V d l n 
ashington or at any of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
A copy of the Board's order in this matter is attached. 
- 0 -

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 225] 
[Reg. Y] 
Bank Holding Companies 
Notice of Application to Acquire Company Engaged in the 
Operation of a Savings and Loan Association and of Possible 
Rulemaking with Pvespect Thereto. 
The Board of Governors has received the following application 
f l X e d Pu*suant to § 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
l843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.4(b)(2)) 
Prior approval to acquire shares of a company engaged in the operation 
of a o 
savings and loan association: 
American Fletcher Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana, has applied 
to 
,. 
^Ure voting shares of Southwest Savings and Loan Association, Phoenix, 
The activity of operating a savings and -loan association has not 
k^etof 
ore been found by the Board to be closely related to banking. 
Applicant- states that the proposed activity essentially involves the 
^.Cfcipf. 
deposits and extension of credit, and is, in Applicant's opinion, 
y relate.d to banking. The Board therefore publishes this notice 
r'U'lat t o section 225.4(a) of Regulation Y. 
In connection with this application, the Board will also consider 
rulemaking to add the proposed activity to the list of activities 
PosSible 
tha B°ard k n as previously determined to be closely related to banking. In 
its delii ^ 
D°rations on the activity proposed in the present application and 
PloP°sed rulemaking related thereto, the Board will also consider 

; 
3vjo 
- 2 -
P°ssible imposition of certain restrictions and requirements upon bank 
company entry into the proposed activity. Among the possible 
f r i c t i o n s and requirements the Board will consider are that; 
1) 
th 
Proposed subsidiary may not operate in any geographic market in 
^ich any banking subsidiary of the holding company system of which it 
°uld be a member operates and 2) a bank holding company would not be 
E m i t t e d to operate more than one savings and loan association. 
Interested persons may express their views on the question 
whether the operation of a savings and loan association is so closely 
e(i to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper 
Gnt thereto, and on the restrictions which are being considered in 
ctxon. with the proposed activity and on arty other appropriate 
t e s tnct i o n s. 
Interested persons may also express their views on the question 
whether consummation of the subject proposal can "reasonably be expected 
to 
, 
cuc.e benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased 
•^lon, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse 
ef£ects 
such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair 
CotnPet< t--? 
lon> conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices." 
In order to explore these issues, the Board has directed that 
presentation be held before available members of the Board in 
the $ 
rd Room of its building on 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, 
V. 
V, 
, 
> Washington, D. C. commencing at 10:00 a.m. on October 30, 1973. 

3131 
-3-
lnterested persons are invited to participate by presenting their views 
all i s s u e s raise(j by th e pending proposal. Interested persons need 
not Participate in the oral presentation to have their views considered, 
atlcl may do so by written comment. Written comments as they are received 
be 
building, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, N. W., Washington. 
made available for inspection and copying in Room 1020 of the 
Bo 
the 
Gov 
C 
• The application may be inspected and copied at the offices of 
G Board of Governors or at any of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Any requests to participate orally in the hearing should be 
fitted in writing accompanied, if possible, by a brief summary of 
^oposed testimony, and should be received by the Secretary, Board 
of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, not 
c^an October 1, 1973. Each person orally participating in the 
a5 vculd normally be expected to limit their presentation to thirty 
s» Anyone wishing to submit written comments on this matter, 
imony received at the oral presentation, or on other comments 
*^tvori v 
l-u oy the Board may do so at any time before the close of business 
^Vetrk r 30, 1973. 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective August 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

fcisff.-
319/v 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
8/16/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L COROESPDNCEMCE 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 16, 1973 
^atin American Agribusiness Development Corporation S.A, 
100 North Biscayne Boulevard 
Miami, Florida 33132 
Gentl emen: 
. 
This is in response to your letters of January 10 and 20, 
/ii ' regarding proposed minority investments by your corporation 
LAAD") in Flores International Corporation ("Flores") and similar 
f^Panies, and the possible effect thereof on the Edge Corporations 
ch Hold stock of LAAD. 
C0r 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act provides for Edge 
porations to acquire the stock of other companies, but not of those 
s gaged in the "general business" of selling merchandise in the United 
„.ates or transacting any business in the United States which is not 
incidental" to the company's international business. It would appear 
t . lores' proposed activities, and hence those of companies under-
^ng similar operations, would prevent the direct acquisition of 
^ 
However, LAAD is a foreign-chartered company in which two 
s S e Corporations own minority interests. Based on the information 
me^t • d b y y o u ' t h c B o a r d has concluded that LAAD's proposed invest-
c " l n Flores and similar minority investments (not to exceed 25 per 
in 
i n s i m i l a r companies, totaling a maximum of $200,000 as mentioned 
bUs^°Ur letter, would not cause LAAD to become engaged in the "general 
inv
 n G S S" 
s e l l i n S merchandise in the United States and that those 
b U s ^ e * t s w«uld be "incidental" to LAAD's foreign or international 
in in°?s 
providing equity and loan financing for private industry 
UiVD^^ A r a e r i c a' Therefore, the acquisition or holding of stock of 
t0rv
 
y E d§ G Corporations would not be inappropriate under the statu-
Provisions referred to above. 
However, in the circumstances, the Board wishes to be kept 
rniecl, either directly or through the Edge Corporations holding 

Latin American Agribusiness 
Development Corporation S.A. 
-2~ 
stock of LAAD, regarding the activities of any companies similar to 
* lores, in whose stock LAAD makes an investment, and also as to any 
changes in the operations of any such companies. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

J 
3194 
FEDERAL RESERVfe SYSTEM 
„ 
Item No. 9 
PAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC. 
8/16/73 
Order Approving Acquisition of Atico Financial Corporation 
Pan American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, a bank holding 
C0®pany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
c 
o r the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
S h Q r e s o f A t ico Financial Corporation, Miami, Florida ("Atico Financial"), 
nd t h e r eby to indirectly acquire shares of Atico Advisory Corporation 
("At* co Advisory"), and Construction Supervisory Services ("Construction 
Superv1 
M 
1/ 
isory ), wholly-owned subsidiaries of Atico Financial. 
Atico 
^Vleor 
y engages in the activity of acting as investment adviser to Atico 
tgage Investors, a publicly-owned real estate investment trust. Con-
t U C t i o n SuPervisory engages in the activity of inspecting the progress 
°£ real « * 
estate construction projects and disbursing progress payments 
clPally in connection with loans originated or serviced by bank or non-
bg^ S u sidiaries of Applicant. Such activities have been determined by 
the 
ard to be closely related to the business of banking. (12 CFR 
22!U<«><5), (1) a n d (3))o 
^Ui8i tJ c a n t h a s also submitted a section 4(c)(13) application for the 
r ^ c a n a 
c°f another subsidiary of Atico Financial, Aseguradora Suizo 
atemal 
a general insurance underwriter in Guatemala City, 
that i / L B y a seParate letter of this date, Applicant was informed 
of thi 
A t l c o is acquired, Applicant will be required to divest itself 
8 insurance company within one year from the date of consummation. 

3135 
- 2 -
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors has 
h 
y 
0fien duly published (38 Federal Register 3013). 
Applicant controls eleven banks with aggregate deposits of 
aPproximately $437 million representing 2.2 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in Florida. Applicant's lead bank, Pan American Bank of 
^iami, holds $144 million in deposits. (All banking data are as of 
Member 31, 1972.) One of Applicant's banking subsidiaries has a non-
inking subsidiary engaged in mortgage banking. 
Atico Financial, which has total assets of $21.4 million, is pri-
rily a holding company with its operating activities conducted through 
ita four subsidiaries. 
Atico Advisory, with its only office in Miami (Dade County), 
*°tida, acts as the sole investment adviser to Atico Mortgage Investors 
nvestors"), a publicly-owned, real estate investment trust primarily 
ngaged in the business of making large construction and development loans 
* 
own portfolio. Since Atico Advisory performs solely under an 
ST-tT 
p u bl i s h e d notice of this application included notice of a related 
*Cation to acquire Atico Insurance Agency, Inc. ("Atico Insurance"), 
8ubsidiary of Atico Financial, and thereby to engage in certain 
fiCt.^rance activities. However, in light of objections to these insurance 
86pa
vities, Applicant requested that the Board consider the applications 
pUj, ^ately. Atico Financial has arranged a divestiture to an independent 
aser with a re-purchase agreement to become effective upon Board 
tQlination that the agency may be owned by Applicant. Applicant's 
c°tije
e8t 
Boar<1 approval to acquire Atico Insurance is pending the out-
o f hearings ordered by the Board. Accordingly, the Board's Order 
tty0 J deals only with the proposed acquisition of Atico Financial and 
o f Its subsidiaries, Atico Advisory and Construction Supervisory. 

. 3136 
-3-
exclusive agreement with Investors, there is no competition from other 
investment advisory firms. However, Atico Advisory does compete with many 
other real estate investment trust advisory firms on a national scale in 
respect to the solicitation of mortgage loan applications and competes 
to a lesser extent with mortgage bankers and commercial banks with respect 
to the solicitation of real estate construction and development loans. 
Neither Applicant nor any of its subsidiaries are currently engaged in 
Providing investment adviser services. 
Construction Supervisory, with its only office located in Miami 
<Dade County), Florida, engages in the activity of inspecting the progress 
o f real estate construction projects and disbursing progress payments 
Principally in connection with loans originated or serviced by bank or 
n°nbank subsidiaries of Applicant, for Atico Advisory, or for the public. 
N^ith 
er Applicant nor any of its subsidiaries are currently engaged in 
pr°viding such services. 
The relevant product market in which the Board analyzes the 
^Petitive aspects of the proposed transaction is construction and 
elopment lending since both Investors"" and several of Applicant's 
^anci h? Uu h I n v e 8 t o r s i s n o t a subsidiary of Atico Financial, Atico 
fQct th t 
considerable influence over WtaqjBtori' decisions due to the 
Atico pi Investors' sole adviser, Atico Advisory, is a subsidiary of 

3137 
-4-
Subsidiaties make large constructioti loahs on income property. Investors 
Qnd Applicant's lead bank both originated large construction loans in Dade 
County in 1971. Approximately one-third of Investors' total commitments 
in 1971 were in Dade County. Investors' average loan commitment in Dade 
County in 1971 was more than $2.0 million; Applicant's lead bank's 
ave*age commitment on similar types of loans was $1.2 million. Because 
th 
e relevant market for those loans is broader than Dade County 
and 
be 
5/ 
°suse many large organizations compete in that market,"" consummation 
0 ^ the proposal would have no significantly adverse effect on competition. 
Xh 
e Proposed transaction would eliminate Investors as a competitor of 
applicant in Dade County only; other than Dade County, Investors did not 
°ci8inate loans in areas where Applicant's subsidiaries operate. 
Since Atico Financial is already closely related to Applicant 
its subsidiaries, 
its acquisition by Applicant is not likely to 
1/ 
a 
m a r k e t f o r s u c h l o a n s 1 8 a t l e a s t regional. 
J 
Applicant's lead bank and Investors are both small in comparison 
e 
construction and development lenders in the mat ion. The 
tn n
 
G d total of Investors and Applicant's lead bank's commitments 
tot
 
C o u n t y i n 1 9 7 1 <$52.6 million) was only 11 per cent of the 
for 
° f approximately $500.8 million of construction contracts awarded 
6/ presidential and multifamily residential buildings. 
Of ^PPlleant was organized in April 1968 as a wholly-owned subsidiary 
ApplJico Financial. By order dated February 3, 1969, the Board approved 
^ i c a n t ' s application to become a bank holding company through the 
isition of control of three Florida banks from Atico Financial, 
a° ^ n a n c i a l presently owns approximately 19 per cent of the shares 
Of jjPlicant and directors of Applicant own approximately 61 per cent 
voting shares of Atico Financial. In addition, certain directors 
catit-°fficers o f A t i c o Financial serve in similar capacities with Appli-
e d its lead bank. 

_ 3138 
-5-
affect the services offered by Applicant's subsidiaries. Financial factors 
are consistent with and, in fact, lend some weight to approval in view of 
the beneficial effect Atico Financial's portfolio of high-grade marketable 
securities should have on the liquidity and earnings capacity of Appli-
cant. As a result thereof Applicant's ability to provide contributions of 
capital to its subsidiaries to the extent needed will be strengthened. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation of the pro-
Posed acquisition would result in any undue concentration of resources, 
Ur*fair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices or 
°ther adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
the 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public inter-
e s t factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) is 
avorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
termination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) 
f Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
t termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its sub-
8idiar4 
ies as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Provjoj 
^ns and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
U e d thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. The transaction shall 
c°nsummated not later than three months after the effective date of 

3199 
-6-
thls Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
V 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 16, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
^ V o t i n g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
3^00 
Item No. 10 
8/16/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 16, 1973 
American Bancshares Inc. 
0. Box 3131 - 150 S. E. Third Avenue 
Florida 33101 
Gentlemen: 
o f 
This is in response to your application under Section 4(c)(13) 
the Bank Holding Company Act to acquire, indirectly through a sub-
lary, 80 per cent of the shares of Comercial Aseguradora Suizo 
ericana, S.A. ("CASA"), Guatemala City, Guatemala1", and its wholly-
^ed subsidiary, Comercial Afianzadora, S.A. ("CA"). 
U 
Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, promulgated under Sec-
T J" , M c ) (13) of the Act, provides that a bank holding company, may, 
in x'l •:he R°ard's consent, own or control voting shares of any company 
Act / 1 C h a C o m p a n y organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
f0r ;an Edge Corporation) may invest. Edge Corporations are organized 
oth^ 
purpose of engaging in international or foreign banking or 
' t h i ; 7 ^ - a t i o n a l o r foreign financial operations. In keeping with 
aPproSLc-lt:U,:0ry p u r p o s e> l t h a s 3 o nS b e c n Board policy that it is in-
in a°fr:La^e f°r a n E d g e C o r P o r a t i o n t o acquire a controlling interest 
cial 
i 8 n c o mP a ny that is not engaged in banking or related finan-
serv' °^era ti-0ns» including financing activities and bank-related 
fina^C?S* General insurance underwriting falls outside the scope of 
cond C i a l o p e r a t i o n s t h a t t h e Board has heretofore auth orized to be 
C 
by foreign subsidiaries of Edge Corporations. 
the r c , in the Board's judgment, there are no apparent reasons in 
dooo°rd ° f t h i s aPP l i c a t i°n to depart from its previous policy. 
°r CA 
a p p G a r L h a t tllc present or contemplated activities of CASA 
hankin
arC i n t e § r a t e d in any way with the international or foreign 
that ° p e r a t i o n s o f P a n American Bancshares Inc. ("Pan American"), 
the p r o
 a n y significant benefits to the U.S. public would ensue from 
^nderwr?°?ed accluisition. Moreover, ownership of general insurance 
8ubstant^ng businesses w o u l d expose a U.S. banking organization to 
°r<Hnar
 1k1 r i s k s qualitatively different from those encountered in 
y banking and familiar to bank management. 

3201 
Pan American Bancshares Inc. 
-2-
The Board therefore finds no basis for a conclusion that 
the proposed acquisition would not be substantially at variance with 
the purposes of the Act and would be in the public interest. Accord 
lntly, your application is denied. The Board hereby orders that, if 
^ n American acquires indirect ownership of more than 5 per cent of 
the shares of CASA or CA through merger with Atico Financial Corpora 
tion, it shall divest those shares within one year of the date of 
Such merger. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

' j o p o 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
8/16/73* 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRCSS O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
' • ^ U R E ^ R - ' 
. 
' 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 17, 1973 
Tk 
e Kecmerer Corporation 
Koom 1510, 120 Broadway 
e w York, New York 10005 
^tle^en: 
The k- 
B y l e t t e r d a t c d April 14, 1973, Burke & Burke, counsel to 
that ' 1 G r e r G o rP o r a t i o 1 1 ("Kemmerer"), has requested Board determination 
V i r * . ^ ^ 
h a s c e a s e d t o control The Wise County National Bank, Wise, 
inj>Clnia 
Bank"), thereby terminating its status as a bank hold-
r eque° C p a n y W i t h r e s p e c t t 0 t h a t b a n k» 
T h e Board has considered that 
The p S t i n aPP r o v i nS the application of Kemmerer to exchange shares in 
First;
X
T
rS ^acional Bank of Kemmerer, Kemmerer, Wyoming, for shares in 
KeiRm, " y o m i n 3 Bancorporation, Kemmerer, Wyoming, on the condition that 
ceases to be a bank holding company within one year from the 
L (j Q X. 
1 1 
^ 
Y 
Ip^j. " 
e ^card s approval thereof. The circumstances and events 
r e s p 
Kemmerer s status as an illegal bank holding company with 
desc °
t
0 
F i r s t National Bank of Kemmerer and The Wise Bank are 
CounriDGd f u l l y i n the March 28, 1973, letter .from the Board's General 
to Burke & Burke. 
^973 
F r o m the information set forth in the aforementioned April 14, 
Writ! 
etter, as well as other material and information, both oral and 
aPPear^ Su^mitted on behalf of Kemmerer and Wise Bank, the following 
to be the basis for the requested determination: 
Sentlr> 
** Kemmerer transferred voting shares of Wise Bank (repre-
^ 
P e r c e n C 
the voting shares of said bank) to Wise Bank as 
of 
U n der a voting trust agreement dated June 29, 1971, the terms 
ancj 
r"2strict the voting of said shares to certain circumstances 
^nter
 r }kaited purposes. (Specifically, the trust agreement provides, 
Uu^^^—iii> that the trustee shall not vote the shares unless the 
ficie^t
0i: shares present in person or represented by proxy is insuf-
its 
a ^uorcm; or a matter coming before a meeting requires for 
all 
aPPros/a^- 
50 per cent or of a larger percentage of 
Present ° U t S t a n d i n S shares and such required percentage of the shares 
the tru 1 U PGl"son o r represented by proxy approves such matter, then 
sUch 
St"ee shall cause the trusteed shares to be voted in favor of 
The tiru ° r 
necessary for its approval by the requisite percentage.) 
K e ^ 
Sl" a8^cement prohibits the. trustee from returning the stock to 
et. prior to the termination of the trust (December 31, 19S0) if 

32(13 
Kemmerer Corporation 
-2-
r 
Kemmerer would thereby be in control, directly or indirectly, of Wise 
sank. The trustee may transfer the shares, either by sale or an ex-
change, only if the transferee is a person or corporation neither 
erectly nor indirectly controlled by Kemmerer, and only if the 
exchange will not result in Kemmerer's direct or indirect control of 
he Wise Bank; the trustee cannot return the shares to Kemmerer if 
Kemmerer would thereby control the bank. 
2. Kemmerer has reduced its direct and indirect interest in 
a nk from 33 per cent to 24.5 per cent of the voting shares through a 
of three sales through investment brokers in 1971 and 1972. On 
e basis of a list provided by Wise Bank of the purchasers of such 
ares, it appears that there is no connection between such persons 
a n d Kemmerer. 
\ 
3. John L. Kemmerer, Jr., president and a member of the board 
directors of Kemmerer and its subsidiaries, resigned as a director of 
nk in September 1971. John N. Vandeventer, a director of Bank, re-
^gned his positions as an officer of certain of Kemmerer's subsidiaries 
n April 1973. At the present time, except for Mr. Vandeventer, who 
vides some part-time bookkeeping services for an inactive Kemmerer 
Sub ^ -1 rl n 
^ 
iuxary in the process of liquidation, no director, officer or 
dif 
Kemmerer holds any similar position with Wise Bank; and no 
ector, officer or employee-of Wise Bank holds any similar position 
I t h Kemmerer. 
4.- John L. Kemmerer, Jr., sold 905 shares of Bank in April 1973, 
n o other director or officer of Kemmerer owns stock in Bank. 
bUs. 
Both Kemmerer and the president cf Bank disclaim any 
G X c^ n e s s contact for approximately the last 20 months, except for the 
^nge of material and information necessary for Kemmerer to file 
Hold- 
t-he Board in conformity with the requirements of the Bank 
find^n§ Company Act, that would serve, in their view, as a basis for a 
a c 
t*iat Kemmerer has controlled, attempted to control, or exerted 
tolling influence over the management or policies of Wise Bank. 
eciplo 
6. Kemmerer has agreed that no director, officer, policy-making 
and 
o r agent of Kemmerer (or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates) 
thi » except for Mr. Vandeventer (whose services will cease at the end of 
by 
' n o P G r s o u affiliated with, subject to influence by, related 
n0r ?0c* o r carriage, or indebted to any of the foregoing acts or serves, 
Kemmg^^ a c t o r SGrve in a similar capacity with Wise Bank, and that 
of j • e r (and each of its subsidiaries and affiliates) and each director, 
ther i r °r ot*lcr employee of Kemmerer (or of any subsidiary or affiliate 
or any person affiliated with, or subject to influence by, or 

3204 
^he Kemmerer Corporation 
-3-
t 
related by blood or marriage or indebted to any of the foregoing, will 
refrain in the future (including the time following the termination of 
the trust agreement) from the exercise of any influence or control 
°ver the management or policies of Wise Bank. 
On the basis of the information summarized above, the Board 
^as concluded that Kemmerer has relinquished control of Wise Bank. The 
Board's conclusion in this regard is based on the information summarized 
herein, and any material change in those facts or the subsequent revela-
tion of any material fact not disclosed previously may result in a 
different conclusion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg•.^ 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

vr-
0*0 u j 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o* 1 2 
8/16/73 
FIRST WYOMING BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
First Wyoming Bancorporation, Kemmerer, Wyoming, has applied 
for the> 
R R ^ - J I 
8 aPP™val under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
<12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) 0f formation of a bank holding company 
thro 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Firqh vr 
National Bank of Kemmerer, Kemmerer, Wyoming ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested P rsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
W i t h § 3<h\ 
* u 
W 
ot the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
exPited * and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in n 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(I2 U*S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is a newly organized company formed for the express 
G of acquiring Bank ($20.7 million deposits). (Banking data are 
^ 0 f Decemb.v qi 
1 0 „ x 
^ 
1 
Bank, located in Kemmerer, Wyoming (popula-
^Proximately 2,200), is the only commercial bank within 50 miles 
Kemmerer 
c^ 
bince the purpose of the proposed transaction is to effect 
borate 
ownership of Bank, there would be no adverse effects on compe-
t i Qn in 
v
 
Q n y r e l e v a n t area, and competitive considerations are consistent 
QPproval of the application. 
The financial condition, managerial resources and future 
8Pect 
8 of Applicant are dependent upon those same conditions as 
8 t in Bank. Although the financial condition of Bank is regarded 

3£06 
- 2 -
a a generally satisfactory, Applicant plans to provide Bank with additional 
equity capital, which should strengthen Bank. Managerial resources and 
future prospects of Bank are regarded as satisfactory, and consistent with 
approval of the application. There is no evidence that the proposal would 
h&v 
a v e any immediate effect on the convenience and needs of the area served 
^ Bank. However, Applicant's injection of equity capital will enable 
a n k to make larger loans. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
Heeds of hVI 
t h e community to be served are consistent with approval of the 
PPlieation. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction would be in 
t h e Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
thig OrH 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
thig Ord 
er, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by th 
ne Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 17, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
— 
Cher 
a L u n
t h i S a c t i o n ; Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
» nd Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

_ 3207 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE KEMMERER CORPORATION 
Order Approving Transaction Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Item No. 13 
8/16/73 
The Kemmerer Corporation, New York, New York ("Kemmerer"), a 
registered bank holding company owning 46.7 per cent of the voting shares 
o f The First National Bank of Kemmerer, Kemmerer, Wyoming ("Bank"), has 
aPPlied f o r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
842(a)(3)) to exchange the interest it holds in Bank for 50 per cent 
Of ry» p. 
e of the voting shares of First Wyoming Bancorporation ("First 
doming"), 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persoris 
8 to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3 c k \ 
the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
arid n o n 
e has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
t ioi\ 
-j . 
Ught ot the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8«(c)). 
Kemmerer and its subsidiaries apparently engage in impermissible 
Uotlktmkin 8 activities, not eligible for grandfather privileges under the 
enimerer has indicated to the Board its intention to cease to be a 
batlk holdi 
m g company. Accordingly, on the basis of the record, the 
aPPliCatio 
, 
11 is approved for the reasons summarized in the Board's Order 
this dnh 
ace relating to the application of First Wyoming to become a 
n k holdi 
8 company, provided that Kemmerer cease to be a bank holding 
ictUn one year from the date of this Order. The transaction 
ahail « 
not 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 

3208 
" 2 -
thG effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the 
effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant 
t o delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 17, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
^chlr t i n g f°r 
a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
i and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
3 2 0 9 
OF THE 
Item No. 14 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
8/16/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
M l a f c : 
^ / F ^ ' 
A O O R C S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
August 17, 1973 
I REGISTERED 
! ^ U R N . RECEIPT REQUESTED 
•^he Kemmerer Corporation 
1510, 120 Broadway 
York, New York 10005 
Gentl emen: 
fn 
Enclosed are the Board's Orders and press release 'approving 
h o L t h e a P P l i c a t i o n o f First Wyoming Bancorporation to become a bank 
Riding company through the acquisition of The First National Bank of 
n®erer; and (2) the application of The Kemmerer Corporation to 
for 
§ G l t S s h a r e s i n T h c F i r s t National Bank of Kemmerer ("Bank") 
shares in First Wyoming Bancorporation, on the condition that 
Kemmerer Corporation ("Kemmerer") cease to be a bank holding 
mPany within one year of the date of the Board's Order. 
c 
. 
I n i t s review of Kemmerer's application, the Board took into 
With l d G r a t i 0 n K e m m e r c r ' s request for review of the Board's position 
fiank r e S p o c t t 0 w h a t i s regarded as effective divestiture under the 
to b U o l d i n s G o mP a ny A c t- 
The Board's position has been and continues 
is f t h a t d i v G S t l t u r e down to 5 per cent or less of the voting shares 
the6 
e a n d P r e f e r a b l e divestiture under the Act. However, in 
v G s t
P a r t : i C U l a i : c i r c u m s t : a n c e s o f a given case, something less than di-
c 0 n. l t u r c d o w n t o 5 per cent may constitute effective divestiture of 
, lCrol under the Act. 
the . 
Kemmerer has not divested down to 5 per cent or less of 
the V° t l n§ shares of First Wyoming Bancorporation within one year of 
vinc
G 
d a L G ° f t h e E o a r d ' s Order, Kemmerer should present con-
and ^ 
evidence to the Kansas City Reserve Bank that Kemmerer cannot 
^Uao?03 110t c o n t : r c i o r exercise a controlling influence over the 
the ?Craent o r policies of the bank holding company or the Bank. In 
City
1ptcri,ril» i n addition to reporting every two months to the Kansas 
Kemm 
S G r v e Bank on the progress being made for divestiture, 
G r° r a n d its officers and directors should refrain from any 

_ 3 ^ 1 0 
The Keramerer Corporation 
-2-
ilunurtct0 i n f l u e n c e t h e management or policies of the bank, unless 
/ uch efforts are exerted directly in behalf of effecting divestiture 
' * control of the bank holding company and the Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
\ 

'
.
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
I 
' 
l e a j e o w i r e 
s e r v i c e 
b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
o f 
t h e 
f e d e r a l 
r e s e r v e 
s y s t e m 
K ? ® , ^ . 
1 5 
WASHINGTON 
i5i/±b//3 
August 16, -1973 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
The Board approved today modifications to its salary guidelines 
by incorporating the regulations issued by the Cost of Living 
Council under the Economic Stabilization Program. Reserve Banks 
are to administer salaries in accordance with the regulations of 
^ e Council. 
^ you know, this action modifies the Board's existing Phase III 
a l a ry guidelines in several respects, including: 
(1) Inclusion of section 130.12 of the 
Cost of Living Council's regulations 
which provides for the granting of an 
additional 1.5 per cent increase in the 
aggregate adjustment pool where such an 
s 
increase is necessary to prevent gross 
/ 
f 
inequities, serious market disruptions, 
/ 
^ 
or localized shortages of labor. The 
specific, criteria that must be met to 
t 
justify such increase are set forth in 
Pay Board Ruling 1972-31. 

(2) Partial inclusion of section 130.15 in 
that Reserve Banks will be allowed to grant 
increases that were permitted during Phase II 
under the Council's regulations but not avail-
able under the Board's guidelines. Whereas 
the Council's regulations permit the payment 
of such increases retroactively, the Reserve 
Banks may only grant such increases prospectively. 
(3) In addition, salaries of officers below Group A, 
excluding General Auditors, wilt also be adminis-
tered in accordance with the Council's regulations. 
modifications were approved by the Board with the understanding 
any questions regarding the interpretation of such regulations 
^°uld be addressed to the Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities; 
arid» further, that all such permissible increases will be paid prospec-
F. > 
Vg1v and not retroactively. 
e Reserve Banks will be expected to finance the modifications in the 
^idelines through a reordering of priorities. If sufficient funds 
Q n not be ,-edirected and salary problems are accute, requests for 
add it? 
Clonal, funds should be directed to the Committee on Federal Reserve 
Activities. In taking this action, the Board instructed the Committee 
review closely all such requests in the light of recent efforts directed 
budgetary restraint. 
^
^ 

The modifications in the Board's guidelines are intended to provide 
the Reserve Banks with increased flexibility in dealing with salary 
administration problems. The Board's action also represents a 
further step toward decentralization within the System. 
Sheehan 
: 
. / 
c°pies; Gov Sheehan 
S. Thieke 
P, Tarbat ton 
C.W.Wood 
R. C. Burke 
John Hart 
/ 
i 
i 
I 
» 
i 
i 

0/ 
3211 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2055J 
Item No. 16. 
8/16/73 
AOORESS arriCIAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 17, 1973 
Mr. E. Gerald Corrigan, Secretary-
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
°ear Mr. Corrigan: 
N.I 
\ 
This acknowledges your letter of August 16, 1973,' 
informing us that John E. Flanagan, Assistant General 
Auditor, has been granted a leave of absence, with pay, 
for a period of approximately one week, commencing about 
August 20, 1973, to assist the Central Bank of Colombia 
with respect to internal audits and control and custody 
valuables. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 

M§ 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, •. C. £OKBJ 
U / ^ i 
Item No. 17 
8/16/73 
ANDREW F. BRIMMER 
MEMBER OF THE BOARQ 
August 21, 1973 
The Honorable Stephen Tolbert 
Minister of Finance 
Government of Liberia 
Monrovia, Liberia 
Dear Mr. Minister: 
Thank you for your letter of August 3. 
We will be pleased to try to locate a suitable expert to assist 
* he Liberia National Bank in establishing a research department—with the 
expectation that ha will serve for two years. Unfortunately, the Federal 
11-serve System will not bo able to pay the salary ana other expenses of 
ctV) expert: on an extended mission. As I mentioned in ray letter informing 
our inability to establish a currency depot in Liberia, the 
-deral Reserve System is subject to severe limitations on the types of 
°reign activities in which we can engage. 
Given this situation, I would suggest that you also ask the 
o^tral Banking Service of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) if they 
ass*-st you with this request. I understand that they would probably 
- billing to budget another expert in addition to Mr. Lambie. 1 would 
£e you to explore this prospect at the earliest opportunity. 
^ 
If you particularly want an American or a person with Federal 
erve experience you can so indicate to the Fund, and they will, I am 
respect your wishes. We have worked closely with the IMF' in the 
Pa s t 
i 
locating suitable candidates for assignments of this type. Howeve] 
y vant to receive the request for assistance prior to the selection of 
candidate by the requesting central bank. 
^ 
If for some reason you do not wish to use the Central Banking 
you might want to explore the possibility of obtaining funding 
j r the position from the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID). 
v>ould certainly do what I can to support such a request. 

.. 3216 
The Honorable Stephen Tolbert 
- 2 -
In the meantime, we will be doing our best to find a well-
qualified expert for your consideration. 
Sincerely yours, 
