MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 16, 1973 

Ii' J L I 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 16, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office 
of Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Staff presented a review of domestic and international devel-
opments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings of 
the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical materials 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

940 
3/16/73 
-2-
prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, along 
with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed pertinent legislative developments, 
after which members of the staff who had attended specifically for 
the economic review withdrew from the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Industrial National Corporation, Providence, Rhode Island, 
to acquire shares of IN Financial Services Ltd., Toronto, Canada. A 
copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bankers 
International Corporation, New York, New York, (1) to acquire shares 
of B. T. Finance Company, Limited, Hong Kong; and (2) for the latter 
to issue and have outstanding debt obligations with maturities in 
excess of one year. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
Pennsylvania Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to invest addi-
tional funds in First Northamerica Leasing, Ltd., Toronto, Canada. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Committee on Federal 
Reserve Bank Activities in a memorandum dated March 14, 1973, the 
Board unanimously approved an increase of 11 positions in the employment 
ceiling of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 4. 

3/16/73 
-3-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Electronic transfer of funds. On March 15, 1973, the Board 
discussed a revised draft of a letter to the Chairman of the Subcom-
mittee on Bank Supervision and Insurance of the House Banking and 
Currency Committee regarding the relationship of savings and loan 
associations to the various developing systems for the electronic 
transfer of funds. Several changes in the draft were suggested and 
it was agreed that the proposed letter would be modified in light 
of those suggestions for futher consideration by the Board. 
During today's discussion general support was indicated for 
the revised draft, but it was believed that the letter should be 
reviewed again on March 19, 1973, when all Board members were expected 
to be present. The matter was therefore deferred. 
Testimony on NOW accounts. The Board discussed a draft of 
testimony to be presented by Governor Mitchell before the Subcommittee 
on Financial Institutions of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs on March 21, 1973, principally with respect to the 
implications of accounts recently offered by savings institutions in 
Massachusetts and New Hampshire involving the use of negotiable orders 
of withdrawal (NOW accounts). Several comments were made and changes 
agreed upon and it was understood that the statement would be edited 
in light of today's discussion for further consideration by the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

E O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYS1 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
11 em No. 1 
3/16/73 
EM 
A D D R E S S 
Q F r i C I A U 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 16, 1973 
Industrial National Corporation 
55 Kennedy PI a za 
Providence, Rhode Island 
02903 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your lecter of January 25, 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent., pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, as amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, 
for your Corporation to purchase and hold all of the shares 
of IN Financial Services Ltd. ("IN Financial"), Toronto, 
Canada, at a cost of approximately $100 and to contribute co 
IN Financial all of the capital, stock of Continental Factors 
Corporation and Industrial. International Leasing Ltd,, pro-
vided such shares are acquired within one year from the date 
of this letter* 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under 
Section 4(c)(13), IN Financial shall confine its activities 
to international or foreign banking and other international 
or foreign financial operations. 
The foregoing consent is granted on the condition 
that the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit 
Restraint: Guidelines as they apply to Industrial National 
Bank of Rhode Island and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

o/c..' 
Ai. 
p^;: -:^-- • .v.•'« 2 . 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20351 
11 em No. 2 
3/16/73 
A D D R E S S 
O K F I C I A L 
C C R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 16, 
1973 
Rankers International Corporation 
16 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 28, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIC") to 
purchase and hold all of the shares of B. T. Finance Company, 
Limited ("BTFC"), Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately HK3.000,000 
(about $600,000), provided the shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of BTFC by BIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BTFC if BTFC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Re-
s e r v e Act could, with the consent of the Board of 
Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if BTFC 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any action 
or undertakes any operation in Hong Kong or elsewhere, 
in any manner, which at the time would not be per-
missible to BIC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, BIC 
vill furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BTFC as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any uhare acquisitions or dispositions by BTFC 
be. reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BTFC were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
In your letter you also requested consent for BTFC to 
engage in the business of underwriting or dealing in securities 

Bankers International Corporation 
— a b r o a d . 
The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned 
upon your Corporation's obtaining the prior consent of the Board 
for the continued holding of shares of BTFC should BTFC acquire 
stock of individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or 
representing 25 per cent or more of the voting shares of any company, 
except in the case of underwriting operations covered by firm 
commitments from subunderwriters or ocher purchasers0 With respect 
to trading in securities in which Corporations are prohibited from 
investing by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned 
on the fact that BTFC will acquire such shares only as dealer or 
underwriter, maintain a size and turnover of inventory that is 
reasonable in relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within 
a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
quested by the Board. 
You have requested consent for BTFC to engage in the busi-
ness of providing consulting services outside the United States. The 
Board's consent is granted subject to the condition that such services 
relating to the U.S0 market will be confined to the initial entry of 
foreign companies into that market. 
Subject co continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of Section 211.9(a), 
(b), and (c) of Regulation K so far as they relate to the activities 
of BTFC, 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of BTFC„ 
The Board also grants consent for BTFC to issue and have 
outstanding debt obligations with original maturities in excess of 
one year in an amount not to exceed $12,000,000. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to Bankers Trust Company and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

345 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
• f t h e 
3/16/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
a r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O C N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A H O 
March 16, 1973 
First Pennsylvania Corporation 
Fifteenth and Chestnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19102 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 16, 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, as amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, 
for your Corporation to invest an additional C$1,000,000 
(about $1 ,010,000) in First Nort.hamerica Leasing Ltd. ("FNL"), 
Toronto, Canada, provided at least $500,000 is invested.within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under 
Section 4(c)(13), FNL shall confine its activities to inter-
national or foreign banking and other international or 
foreign financial operations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
f^UR^-V 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
11 em No. 4 
3/16/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 22, 1973 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear President Hayes: 
The Board of Governors has considered your request to 
increase New York's employment ceiling by 36 computer support 
positions. Although the Board is in support of the Bank's plan 
to improve computer support to functional areas as described in 
the Master Automation Plan, it would not be consistent with cur-
rent manpower restraint policy to increase the ceiling by 36 
positions. After careful analysis, the Board has approved an 
additional 11 positions at this time as critical and, accordingly, 
the New York ceiling is raised to 5,011 positions. 
We recognize that appropriate expenditures to implement 
the original proposal were included in the January-June 1973 
budget. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
