MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 5, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Amendments to Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 5, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Ferrell, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Amendments to Regulation Q. Recent discussions by the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation had developed general agreement 
among the Board of Governors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board upon upward adjustment of ceiling 
rates of interest payable on time and savings deposits by depository-type 
institutions. The package of adjustments included a new feature, namely, 
the establishment of a new category of consumer time deposit with no 
interest rate ceiling, but with a minimum maturity of four years and a 
minimum denomination of $1,000. It was also proposed to change the rules 
governing payment of a time deposit before maturity to permit a bank to 

2522 
7/5/73 
_2-
pay a time deposit at any time before maturity at a reduced rate of 
interest. The agreed-upon regulatory changes for member banks of the 
Federal Reserve System were brought before the Board today for action, 
the expectation being that the other supervisory authorities would 
concurrently take action with respect to their interest rate regulations. 
Discussion brought out that the staff of the FDIC had inquired 
why, when the Board in May 1973 had suspended interest rate ceilings on 
all single-maturity time deposits over $100,000, it had not done so also 
with respect to multiple-maturity time deposits of that size. Although 
comments indicated a generally favorable attitude among the members of 
the Board present with respect to such a change, a view was expressed that 
such an innovation should await an opportunity for additional members to 
Participate. 
A draft press release was distributed, and a number of changes 
its language x^ere suggested. 
The Board unanimously approved revisions in ceiling rates of 
interest under Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, as described in the 
press release issued later in the day, retroactive to July 1, 1973. The 
Board also unanimously approved an amendment to Regulation Q relating to 
withdrawal of time deposits before maturity, effective immediately. Attached 
u n d er Item No. 1 are copies of the press release and of the Federal Register 
documents implementing these actions. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
A 
Secretary 
7 

Item No. 1 
7/5/73 
F°r l n B®^ate release 
J u l y 5 > 
1 9 7 3 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced today 
^ G a s e i n t h e maximum rates of interest that member banks may pay on 
sbook savings and other types of consumer deposits, retroactive to July 1. 
Today's actions amending the Board's Regulation Q will: 
Permit member banks to increase from 4.5 per cent to 5 per cent 
the mnv-f TV 
mum rate of interest they may pay on passbook savings deposits. 
Authorize member banks to increase by one-fourth to three-fourths 
of a 
srcentage point the maximum interest rate payable on consumer-type 
j 
eposits — those of less than $100,000. 
Establish a new category of consumer time deposit on which member 
banks ar 
"G not limited as to the amount of interest they wish to pay. To be 
Bible rhn i 
> "t. deposit must mature in four years or more with a minimum de-
f a t t e n or $1,000. 
The Board's actions, along with changes in interest rate ceilings 
wade by other regulatory agencies, have a two-fold objective: they are 
desl-8ned to n ™ • i 
\ rovicie room within the ceilings for a greater measure of equity 
^ th Payment of interest to consumers, in an environment where interest 
*ates 
erally have been rising. They also should enable member banks, and 
°ther £ i n 
. 
ancial institutions, to bid more effectively for consumer deposits 
l n c°tr.peti ti 
•Lion with the yields available to savers on market securities. 
Revisions in the interest rate ceilings xjere made by the Board after 
C°usultatj 
-on with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal 
u Bank Board. These agencies have parallel regulatory authority 

o r o 
- 2 -
°ver the maximum rates of interest that may be paid by insured State-chartered 
banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System, Federally insured 
m u t u a l savings banks, and savings and loan associations. These agencies are 
a l s o announcing changes today in ceiling interest rates for the institutions 
theV regulate. 
In its actions,the Board of Governors approved the following maximum 
r a te structure for 
Pe<^ral lie 
consumer deposits at banks that are members of the 
Reserve System, namely all National banks and State member banks: 
Maturity 
Passbook accounts 
9 0 
to 1 year 
1 ^ar to 2-1/2 years 
New Ceiling 
(Percent) 
5.0 
5.5 
6.0 
•i/; years and over 
and over 
6.5 
lio ceiling with 
minimum denomin-
ation of $1,000 
Old Ceiling 
(Percent) 
4.5 
5.0 
5.5 (for deposits of 1 
year to 2 years) 
5.75 (for deposits of 
2 years and over) 
5.75 (for deposits 
of 2 years and over) 
5.75 (for deposits of 
2 years and over) 
v'ith 
si nglc 
The new schedule, of ceilings, which member banks may make effective 
t h e interest-crediting period beginning July 1, will apply to both 
and multiple-maturity deposits. Single-maturity deposits have one 
Miration date. Multiple-maturity time deposits include deposits that arc 
l°newed automatically at maturity without action by the depositor and deposits 
that 
r G Payable after written notice of withdrawal. 

- 3 -
Ceilings on single maturity time deposits of $100,000 and over that 
mature in 90 days or more were suspended by the Board on May 16 as part of a 
series of actions designed to curb the rapid expansion in bank credit and 
help moderate inflationary pressures. Ceilings on large time deposits 
Maturing in less than 90 days were suspended in 1970. 
Ceilings on consumer-type deposits were last increased on January 21, 
Such ceilings represent only the maximum amount of interest that banks 
a y p a y o n ^posits. Member banks are free to pay a lesser rate of interest 
l f they so desire. 
In a related action, the Board announced a change in that part of 
regulation that permits the payment of a time deposit prior to maturity. 
Under t'Vir* 
"e present regulation, a bank may pay a time deposit before maturity 
only "-;n _ 
ctn emergency where it is necessary to prevent great hardship to the 
d e 
tor. ' Under the new rule, a bank may pay a time deposit at. any time 
before 
maturity but only at a reduced rate of interest to the depositor. 
In Such r c 
cases, a bank may pay the depositor interest at no more than the 
shook rate for the period held less three months. Banks are permitted to 
y a rate of interest on time deposits higher than that allowed on passbook 
acc°unt.s because of the underlying agreement that the time account 
m°ney t.,; i i 
4 1 r o m a m on deposit for a specified period of time. Normally, a 
Passbook 
account provides a depositor with greater liquidity because he can 
Withdraw r i 
iunci3 at any time, although the bank may require 30-days written notice 
intended withdrawal. 
A copy of the Board's order relating to the proposed change is attached, 
- 0 -
o f a n 

2526 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER I I — FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217— INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Early Withdrawals 
The Board of Governors has amended its rules on the payment 
time deposits by member banks prior to maturity. Formerly, a time 
deposit could be paid before maturity only in an emergency where it was 
necessary to prevent great hardship to the depositor. Under the new 
rules, a member bank is permitted to pay a time deposit before maturity, 
b U t i n S u c h event the bank can pay interest on the amount withdrawn at 
a *ate not to exceed the maximum rate prescribed for a savings deposit 
during the period the funds have remained on deposit, less three months. 
Effective immediately, the Board has amended s-ection 217.4(d) 
i t s Re8ulation Q (12 CFR Part 217) to read as follows: 
5 2 1 7 • 4 Pa^mgntof time deposits before maturity. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(d) Penalty for early withdrawals. Where a time deposit, 
° r 
portion thereof, is paid before maturity, a member bank may pay 
ftteicst on the amount withdrawn at a rate not to exceed that currently 
Prescribed in 
§ 21.7.7 for a savings deposit: Provided, That the de-
bitor shall forfeit three months of. interest payable at such rate. 
If 
> however, the amount withdrawn has remained on deposit for three:-

-2-
n»nths or less, all interest shall be forfeited. Where necessary to 
comply W i t h the requirements of this paragraph, any interest already 
Pai"d t 0 ° r f o r t h e account of the depositor shall be deducted from the 
a * O U n t R e s t e d to be withdrawn. 
* 
* 
* 
There was no notice, public participation, and deferred ef-
^Gctive datr 
a e with respect to this amendment because such procedure 
w°uld result i i 
n deJ-ay that would be contrary to the public interest 
and servp 
no useful purpose. See § 262.2(e) of the Board's Rules of 
Pl'°Cedure> 12 CFR § 262.2(e). 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 5, 1973. 
/S/ CHESTER B. FELDBERG 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 

< 
/ 
-Tp 
. . 2521 
TITLE 12 —BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
i. 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM 
. * .* 
/ • 
[REG. Q] 
PART 217--INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Maximum rates of interest 
The Board of Governors has increased the maximum rates of 
interest that a member bank may pay on time and savings deposits. The 
Eoard also suspended, for the time being, the limitations on the^rates 
interest which may be paid by a member bank on a single maturity 
e deposit of $1,000 or more with a maturity of 4 years or more. 
&>th actions were taken pursuant to the Board's authority under section 
of the Federal Reserve Act to prescribe rules governing the payment 
interest on deposits in member banks. 
There was no notice, public participation, and deferred ef-
-ective date with respect to this amendment because such procedure 
^ u l d result in delay that would be contrary to the public interest 
and serve no useful purpose. See § 262.2(e) of the Board's Rules of 
^occdure, 12 C?R § 262 .2(e). 
Effective July 1, 1973, section 217.7 of the Board's Regula-
». j 
° n Q is amended to read as follows: 

& 
9 C > ( 
- 2 - 
* 
" 
I 217.7 Maximum rates of interest payable by member banks on time and 
•L 
.savings deposits. 
, 
* 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 19 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and § 217.3, th . Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
1/ 
serve System hereby prescribes the following maximum rates of in-
terest per annum payable by member banks of the Federal Reserve 
System on-time and savings deposits: 
(a) Single maturity time deposits.' 
(1) Deposits of $100,000 or more. There is no maximum 
rate of interest presently prescribed on any single maturity time de-
Posit of $100,000 or more. 
(2) Deposits of less than $100,000. Except as provided 
in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, no member bank shall pay interest 
°n any single maturity time deposit of less than $100,000 at a rate in 
^cess of the applicable rate under the following schedule: 
Maturity 
Maximum per cent 
30 days or more but less 
than 90 days 
5 
\ 
—' . 
: 
SO days or more but less than 
3. year 
5-1/2 
1 year or more but less than 30 
j 
months 
6 
1 
30 months or more 
' 
• 
6-1/2 
The limitations on rates of interest payable by member banks of the 
Federal Reserve System on time and savings deposits, as prescribed 
herein, are not applicable to any deposit which is payable only at 
a n office of a member bank located outside the States of the United 
States and the District of Columbia. 

- 3 -
(3-) Deposits of $1,000 or more with maturities of 
V 
ilJiears or more. There is no maximum rate of interest presently 
' 
" 
V 
prescribed on any single maturity time deposit of $1,000 or more 
vith a maturity of 4 years or more. 
(*>) Multiple maturity time deposits. 
No member bank shall 
Pay interest on a multiple maturity time deposit at a rate in excess 
the applicable rate under the following schedule: 
Maturity intervals 
Maximum per cent 
\ 
30 days or more but 
less than 90 days 
' 5 
90 days or more but less 
than 1 year 
5-1/2. 
1 year or more but less 
than 30 months 
. 
6 
30 months or more 
6-1/2 
(c). Savings deposits. 
No member bank shall pay interest at 
a r ate in excess of 5 per cent on any savings deposit. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 5, 1973. 
N 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
v 
