MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 10, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Amendments to the Board's Rules 
Regarding Delegation of Authority. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 10, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mitchell 
Daane 2/ 
Brimmer 
Sheehan 
Bucher 
1./ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
2J 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1 1 7 ; 
4/10/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the 
application of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares 
of the successor by merger to The Peoples National Bank of Greenfield, 
Greenfield, Ohio, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Alabama 
Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to The Commercial National Bank of Anniston, Anniston, 
Alabama, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved (1) the application of First 
National Financial Corporation, Kalamazoo, Michigan, to acquire shares 
of the successor by merger to Cheboygan Bank, Cheboygan, Michigan; 
and (2) the application of Cheboygan State Bank to merge with Cheboygan 
Bank. The Board authorized issuance of orders reflecting those decisions 
Copies are attached as Items 3 and 4. In a related action, the Board 
unanimously approved the application of Cheboygan State Bank for member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to the 
bank is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Charter 
New York Corporation, New York, New York to acquire shares of The 
Bank of Lake Placid, Lake Placid, New York, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 6. 

1 1 ? ; 
4/10/73 
-3-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Branch building construction, On March 23, 1973, the Board 
considered a draft letter to Chairman Patman of the House Committee 
°n Banking and Currency regarding proposed legislation to raise the 
dollar limits for construction of Federal Reserve Bank branch buildings. 
At that time, it was agreed that the letter would be revised and 
brought back to the Board. With a memorandum dated April 3, 19 73, 
Mr. Cardon presented a revised draft of the letter for the Board's 
consideration. 
After several changes had been agreed upon, the Board 
unanimously approved the letter with the understanding that it would 
be submitted to Chairman Burns for final approval. A copy of the 
letter subsequently sent to Mr. Patman is attached as Item No. 7. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting during the discussion 
°f the following item. 
Philadelphia Bank building program. In a memorandum dated 
APril 6, 19 73, the Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities concurred 
in the recommendations of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
as set forth in a memorandum dated April 2, 1973, that the Board (1) 
aPprove 
the revised control budget for the new bank building program 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia; and (2) authorize the 
Sank to commence with the construction phase of the new building and 
to obtain bids and award contracts for the remaining work. A draft 
letter in that form was attached. 

* 117 
f. *•• 
4/10/73 
-4-
During the discussion serious concern was expressed with 
respect to the magnitude of expenditures involved in the System's 
building programs. It was suggested that the existing expenditure 
guidelines should be closely reexamined by the Committee on Federal 
Reserve Bank Activities. With regard to the Philadelphia Bank's 
program, however, the view was held that in the light of the advanced 
stage of that program and since it conformed to the existing guidelines, 
the staff recommendation should be approved. 
The Board thereupon unanimously approved the letter to the 
Philadelphia Bank, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 8. It was 
understood that the present System building guidelines would be 
reexamined by the Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities and 
fchat the Committee's views would then be reported to the Board. 
Delegation of authority. 
In a memorandum dated March 16, 1973, 
Prepared in light of the discussion at the meeting on March 1, 1973, 
the Office of the Program Director for Banking Structure recommended 
that the Board delegate to the Federal Reserve Banks authority to 
aPprove on behalf of the Board certain multi-bank holding company 
formations and certain bank holding company and merger acquisitions 
existing banks. In proposing this delegation, the staff had set 
down specific guidelines that would delineate those applications that 
could be acted upon by the Reserve Banks under delegated authority. 

i „ 1175 
4/10/73 
-5-
During the discussion at today's meeting, members of the 
Board expressed a desire to move in the direction of increased 
delegation to the Federal Reserve Banks. A majority of the Board 
indicated general support for the proposed delegation under consid-
eration, but alternative views were expressed regarding certain 
portions of the proposal. 
Several Board members believed it would be unwise to allow 
the Reserve Banks to notify an applicant of approval prior to the 
expiration of the period in which a member might request a review 
°f the case by the Board. It was noted that presently there was 
uncertainty as to the number of instances in which a Reserve Bank's 
decision might be reversed by the Board. Certain members felt that 
undesirable repercussions might arise should the Board frequently 
find it necessary to reverse or significantly modify a Reserve Bank's 
decision. Other views, however, were expressed in support of Reserve 
Bank notification to an applicant prior to the Board's review of the 
ease. It was felt that this approach offered a greater degree of 
delegation, since, even though the Reserve Bank's decision could 
subsequently be overridden by the Board, the Bank had arrived at a 
decision and expressed it publicly prior to any Board review. 
Governor Robertson expressed opposition to this proposed 
delegation, noting that this function was too sensitive to be delegated 
to the Reserve Banks, but he stated that he could support the delegation 
this function to one member of the Board. 

f 1176 
4/10/73 
-6-
Ensuing discussion developed majority support for a proposal 
along the lines proposed by the staff. However, it was agreed that 
the delegation to the Reserve Banks would be for a period of six months 
and that, at the end of that period, the Board would evaluate the 
success of the program. There was also majority agreement that during 
the six-month period, the Reserve Banks would not advise applicants 
°f their decisions until the period for Board comment had elapsed. 
Several changes in the proposed guidelines to be used by the Reserve 
Banks were also agreed upon. 
The Board thereupon approved the staff proposal, Governor 
Robertson dissenting, with the understanding that the proposal would 
be modified in light of changes agreed upon today. A copy of the 
amendments to the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority 
subsequently published in the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 9, 
along with the related press release. A copy of the letter sent to 
the Reserve Banks outlining the procedures to be followed in carrying 
o ut the new delegation is attached as Item No. 10. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Smith then 
withdrew and Messrs. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director, and Wood 
the Division of Personnel Administration entered the room. 
San Francisco Bank. The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank 
San Francisco had proposed the appointment of Mr. John B. Williams 
a s First Vice President of that Bank, effective June 1, 1973, for the 

± 1 7 7 
4/10/73 
-7-
unexpired portion of the five-year terra ending February 29, 1976, 
a t an annual salary of $40,000 for the period June 1 through December 31, 
1973. Mr. Williams would succeed Mr. A. B. Merritt, who is retiring 
effe ctive June 1. After discussion, the Board unanimously approved 
the appointment and salary, as recommended in a memorandum from its 
Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities dated April 6, 1973. A 
CoPy of the letter sent to the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 11. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Richmond Bank. In a memorandum of April 9, 1973, Mr. Holland 
Provided additional information on an individual proposed by the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond as a possible nominee 
for the presidency of that Bank. After discussion, it was agreed that 
the individual's name should not be added to the list of candidates 
for the position of President of the Richmond Bank. 
(A copy of 
Mr, Holland's memorandum and a more detailed version of the discussion 
have been placed in the Secretary's confidential file.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1178 
Item No. 1 
4/10/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, a bank holding com-
pany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
fco acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
o f the successor by merger to The Peoples National Bank of Greenfield, 
^eenfield, Ohio ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged 
h as no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition 
o f the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
o f shares of the successor organization is treated herein as the pro-
Posed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion i n Hght of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company in Ohio, controls 
3 6 banks with deposits totaling $2.1 billion," representing 8.5 per cent 
o t the commercial bank deposits in the State. 
- « • — 
f All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through February 28, 1973, unless 
otherwise noted. 

1 1 7 9 ; 
- 2 -
Bank ($15.5 million in deposits), one of two. banks operating 
i n the market (approximated by Greenfield and Leesburg townships and 
s°me additional fringe areas), controls approximately 79 per cent of 
total market deposits (as of December 31, 1972). De novo entry into 
market by Applicant is not attractive in view of the declining 
Population and the poor economic prospects of the area. Applicant s 
closest subsidiary to Bank is located 16 miles away, and that subsidiary 
i s Prevented from branching into Greenfield by Ohio's restrictive branching 
law« 
For these reasons and other facts of record, the Board concludes 
tllat competitive considerations are consistent with approval of the 
aPPiication. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f 
A p p l i c a n t and its present subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory; 
th°se of Bank are also regarded as satisfactory, but are expected to 
become even more favorable under the leadership of Applicant. 
Accordingly, 
considerations relating to the banking factors lend weight toward approval 
^ e application. 
One of the major improvements offered Bank by affiliation 
V i th Appli c a n t would be the increased lending limit made possible by 
1Q 
a n Participations in arrangements with other subsidiaries of Applicant, 
vlllch could serve to attract new businesses into the area. 
Accordingly, 
e°nsiderations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
to K 
b e served lend weight toward approval of the application. 
It is 
t h e Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
j 
e r est and that the application should be approved. 

-3-
1 1 8 0 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
^ I s Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
^is Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
° r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated 
^thorlty. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 10, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
[gg^ 
Secretary of the Board 
^aan°tlng f° r t h l s a c t i o n : 
V l c e Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
e» Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

Item No. 2 
4/10/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1181 
ALABAMA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Alabama Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) to acquire the successor by merger to The Commercial 
National Bank of Anniston, Anniston, Alabama ("Bank"). The bank into 
which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means to 
facilitate the acquisition of voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
proposed acquisition is treated herein as the proposed acquisition 
o f the shares of Bank, 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has conoidcred the application and 
a l 1 comments received in light of the factors set forth in G 3(c) of 
t h e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls four banks with deposits of $873.3 million, 
^Presenting about 14 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
l n Alabama.1/ Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $30.6 million) would 
only approximately half a per cent to Applicant's share of Statewide 
j 
GPosits and would not result in a significant increase in the con-
o r a t i o n of banking resources in Alabama. 
P ^ A U banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect bank holding 
°®pany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
et>ruary 28, 1973. 

1 1 8 2 ; 
- 2 -
Bank Is the third largest of nine banks located in the 
Calhoun banking market and controls about 15 per cent of the total 
dePosits in that market.U 
Applicant's closest banking subsidiary 
is approximately 50 miles distant and there is no significant existing 
c°mpetition between it or any other banking subsidiaries of Applicant 
a n d Bank. Nor is there a reasonable probability of substantial 
future competition developing between Applicant and Bank due to Alabama's 
restrictive branching laws and the relative unattractiveness of Calhoun 
County for de novo entry, since one new bank charter has been 
recently granted for Calhoun County while two other applications 
bank charters are presently being processed. On the basis 
°f the record before it, the Board concludes that competitive con-
aerations relating to the proposed acquisition are consistent with 
aPProval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
0 f Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are satisfactory and 
insistent with approval of the application. Considerations relating 
t o the convenience and needs of the community to be served lend some 
Weight for approval of the application, since Applicant plans to 
exPand Bank's trust and data processing services. It is the Board's 
The~CaThoun banking market is approximated by Calhoun County plus 
C h e City of Heflin. 

1 1 8 3 ; 
-3-
judgment that the proposed acquisition is in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f°r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
d a te of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to 
l e g a t e d authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective April 11, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chaster B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SISAL] 
I ^ ^ t i n g for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
aane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman 

. 1184 
Item No. 3 
4/10/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National Financial Corporation, Kalamazoo, Michigan, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U'S-C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of the successor 
by merger to Cheboygan Bank, Cheboygan, Michigan ("Bank"). The bank 
i n t o which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means 
C o facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. 
Accord-
in8ly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization is 
tr^ated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
* 3(b) 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
atui the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls five banks with aggregate deposits of 
million," representing 1.4 per cent of the commercial banking 
p o s i t s in the State. 
Bank ($16.6 million in deposits), the smaller of the two 
b a t*s in the Cheboygan banking market (which is approximated by 
_____ 
y 
A3-l banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect holding company 
N a t i o n s and acquisitions approved through March 31, 1973. 

± l b 5 
- 2 -
Cheboygan County), controls 41.6 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deposits in that market. Applicant's acquisition of Bank would not 
r e s u l t in Applicant's gaining a dominant share of Cheboygan County bank-
i n g ^sources. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank is over 100 miles 
away. There is no meaningful competition between any of Applicant's 
8ubsidiary banks and Bank; and due to distances involved and the-presence of 
intervening banks, it appears unlikely that competition will develop 
between them in the future. Consummation of the proposal would not 
aPPear to have an adverse effect on any competing bank. 
Accordingly, 
e Board concludes that competitive considerations are consistent with 
aPptoval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Bank, and of Applicant and its present subsidiaries, are regarded 
a s 
generally satisfactory. Applicant intends to increase Bank's capital 
aCc°unts upon consummation of the acquisition. Accordingly, considerations 
b a t i n g to the banking factors are consistent with approval of the applica-
Applicant proposes to enable Bank to improve the services it now 
providGs and to introduce new services so that Bank may become a more effective 
c°ftpetitor in the market. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
need* 
c 
u s of the community to be served are consistent with approval of the 
apPlication. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 
V°uid be in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

_ 1 1 8 6 
- 3 -
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 10, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
^ V o t i n g for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
°aane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
. I i i' I 
I 
CHEBOYGAN STAtk BANK 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
Cheboygan State Bank, Cheboygan, Michigan, a proposed State 
member bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied for the Board's 
aPProval pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) of the 
"fcrger of that bank with Cheboygan Bank, Cheboygan, Michigan, under 
the name of Cheboygan Bank. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in 
form approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has 
requested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, 
t h e Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The Board has considered the application in light of the 
^actors set forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
t h e reasons summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating to 
t h e application of First National Financial Corporation to acquire the 
Accessor by merger to Cheboygan Bank, provided that said merger shall 
tl°t be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
d a t e of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
t h e Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 10, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
1 1 8 7 
Item No. 
11 
4/10/73 
tSEAL] 
I>a V 0 t i*S f o r this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
atle> Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

or CO;' • . 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
4/10/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 10, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Cheboygan State Bank 
Cheboygan, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Cheboygan State Bank, Cheboygan, 
Michigan, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, subject 
to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that Cheboygan State Bank will not conduct a banking business with 
the public prior to its merger with Cheboygan Bank, Cheboygan, Michigan, 
^he Board also approves the establishment and operation by the 
Resulting bank of branches at Indian River arid Mackinaw City, Michigan, 
now operated by Cheboygan Bank. 

l i s y 
Board of Dire.ctors 
- 2 -
« 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
^ e Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
G determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
otter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
usiness. A certified copy of such resolution should be transmitted to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished i s limited 
to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
^closure 

1 1 9 0 ; 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/10/73* 6 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
folding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPplied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of The Bank of Lake 
Placid, Lake Placid, New York ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
t h e Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
0 f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in New York, 
controls 13 banks with aggregate deposits of $4.2 billion representing 4.4 
_ 
1/ 
p e r cent of the total domestic deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect holding company formations 
a n d acquisitions approved by the Board through February 28, 1973. Con-
ciliation of the proposed acquisition of Bank, with deposits of $14.2 
m i l U o n , would neither significantly increase Applicant's share of commer-
C i a l bank deposits in the State nor result in a significant increase in 
th 
e concentration of banking resources in New York. 
^ 
^PlicI^Fi" lead bank, Irving Trust Company, New York City, has deposits 
$3.1 billion and operates 16 branches all within Manhattan; the other 
Welve subsidiary banks of Applicant are small-to-medium size retail banks 
P e rati u g variously in seven of the State's remaining eight banking districts. 

1 1 9 1 ; 
| 
;! 
Bank, which primarily serves the Villages of Lake Placid and 
Sarandc Lake in northern New York's Adirondack Park Reserve, is the third 
smallest of six banks and controls approximately 13 per cent of total 
deposits in the Franklin banking market (consisting of Franklin County and 
t h e towns of North Elba, St. Armand, and Wilmington in Essex County). 
applicant's closest banking subsidiary to Bank is 115 miles distant and it 
aPpears that there is no meaningful existing competition between Bank and 
2/ 
anV of Applicant's subsidiary banking offices." 
Although Applicant has 
ability to establish a de novo bank in the relevant market, there is 
kittle likelihood that it will do so in view of the limited prospects of 
3/ 
tne Franklin market.- 
Consummation of the proposal would enable Bank to 
c°mpete more effectively with the three larger banking organizations whose 
aBgregate control exceeds 75 per cent of market deposits. 
(The largest bank 
the market is a subsidiary of the seventh largest banking organization 
itl the State while the second largest is a proposed subsidiary of the fifth 
ranked banking organization in New York.) Moreover, this acquisition 
w°uld not raise significant barriers to entry as two banks headquartered in 
the market remain available as "footholds" for outside organizations. 
Purthermore, consummation herein could stimulate additional competition 
^thin Bank's service area as a result of its loss of home office protection 
i n Lake Placid. The Board concludes that consummation of this proposal 
w°uld not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. 
The~~proposed acquisition would eliminate a negligible amount of existing 
competition. only one per cent of Bank's deposits are derived from the 
<j0Tnbined s e r v i c e a r e a s cf Applicant's affiliates. The majority of these 
deposits originate in the service area of Irving Trust Company and belong to 
ew York City residents who vacation in the Lake Placid area. 
^ 
Projections indicate that the County will remain largely rural with no 
J°Pulation growth in the foreseeable future, except for seasonal inflows of 
|?Urists. The population per banking office is A,282, or 47 per cent below 
e State's average of 6,300 persons. 

-3- 
;.. 1 1 9 2 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant and 
its subsidiary banks are satisfactory and future prospects for all are 
favorable. Bank's financial and managerial resources are good and, upon 
^summation, it's future prospects will be enhanced. Affiliation with 
applicant should permit Bank to effectively compete with the larger insti-
tutions presently in the market as well as those which may enter as a 
result of state-wide branching effective in 1976. Approval of the acquisi-
tion would enable Bank to broaden and improve the range of services it 
Presently offers (including expanded consumer lending services and newly-
Provided trust services) and would provide customers in the area with an 
additional convenient source of full service banking. 
Considerations 
Elating to the convenience and needs of the community to be served are 
therefore consistent with approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the 
Pr°posed transaction is in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
Masons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
Unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Pe<ieral Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective April 10, 1073. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
^f Noting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
aane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

1 1 ^ 3 
' ' f K u x f r . - ' 
Item No. 7 
4/10/73 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
April 11, 1973 
^he Honorable Wright P a t m a n 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking ana Currency 
^°Use of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
bear M r . Chairman: 
1 am writing in reply to your letter of M a r c h 7 regarding Federal 
Reserve branch buildings. You suggest that legislation authorizing 
construction of such buildings should also provide for a "full-scale 
aUdit of the Federal Reserve System by the G A O " and for compliance 
M t h "the normal procedures prescribed by the General Services 
^ministration in connection with the construction of Federal 
Gildings. " 
Board of Governors believes that G A O audit of the System would 
result in overlapping responsibility and unnecessary additional 
expense, and is inconsistent with the principle of independence of 
^ e monetary authority. 
accounts of the Board of Governors are audited each year by a 
topflight outside firm of certified public accountants. N o restrictions 
a r e placed on the auditors in the conduct of their duties. Their audit 
rePort is reproduced in the Board's annual report, and copies of the 
rePort are furnished to the House Committee on Banking and Currency 
an<l the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. 
£a ch Federal Reserve Bank and branch is examined at least once 
year by the Board's staff of field examiners, w h o are directed 
V the Board to determine the financial condition of the Bank and 
c ° m p l i a n c e b y i t s m a n a g e m e n t with applicable provisions of law 
regulation. The examination includes a comprehensive review 

The Honorable Wright P a t m a n 
o f the Bank' s expenditures to determine if they are properly controlled 
and of a nature appropriate for a Reserve Bank. A n outside c o m m e r c i a l 
accounting firm is engaged to a c c o m p a n y the Board's examiners on 
their examination of one Reserve Bank each year, to provide an 
°ntside evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the examination 
Procedures. 
I n addition to the annual examination by the Board's examiners, the 
derations of each Reserve Bank are audited by the Bank's internal 
S i t i n g staff on a year-round basis under the direction of a resident 
general auditor. H e is responsible to the Bank's board of directors 
through its chairman and its audit committee, and is thus independent 
0f the Bank's operating m a n a g e m e n t . 
E a c h year, the Board's examiners 
review thoroughly the audit p r o g r a m s at all the Reserve Banks to see 
that the coverage is adequate and the procedures effective. 
C° ngress has thus designated the Board of Governors as its " G A O " 
Purposes of reviewing the operations of the Reserve Banks. 
T h e 
B°ard reports directly to Congress, and stands ready to provide any 
^formation Congress seeks about expenditures by the System. If 
another a r m of Congress w e r e directed to audit the Reserve 
Banks, the result would be overlapping responsibility, with consequent 
A u c t i o n s in efficiency and increases in costs. 
Moreover, a degree of confidentiality is essential in conducting m a n y 
the System's functions, including examination of State m e m b e r banks, 
°rrnulation and implementation of monetary policy, and operations 
c°nducted with and on behalf of foreign central banks. Granting G A O 
a , C ces s to all System records could pose problems in assuring the 
c°nfidentiality necessary to these operations. 
*>ally, it should be emphasized that in reviewing agency operations, 
goes far beyond a simple financial audit. Besides verifying 
f o u n t s and determining that expenditures are properly controlled 
authorized, G A O m a k e s judgments about whether p r o g r a m s 
aUthori z e d by Congress are fulfilling the purposes Congress envi-
roned, whether they are no longer needed, and on other policy 
Matters. i n the sensitive area of monetary policy, Congress has 
v°sted decision-making responsibility in the Federal Reserve System, 
a n d has established safeguards to ensure that the System will 
^ e r c i s e professional and entirely independent judgment. 
Injection 
° Policy critiques by G A O would be i n c o n s i s t e n t with this long-
°stablis}led policy of Congress. 
- 2 -

The Honorable Wright Patman 
1JL y 
-3-
Turning to the question of GSA regulations, I assume that you have 
1X1 mind a provision similar to the amendment proposed last year, 
which would have prohibited erection of "any branch building . . . 
Unless the specifications for such building are approved by the 
General Services Administration and the construction of the building 
l s awarded on the basis of competitive bidding conducted in accordance 
^lth regulations prescribed by the General Services Administration. " 
1 Relieve that within guidelines established by the Board the specifi-
cations for branch buildings are developed with sufficient care to 
ensure that GSA approval would be forthcoming if this amendment 
^ere enacted. 
However, establishment of such a procedure would 
e likely to result in some increase in costs, because of the charges 
pSA. imposes for its services and the inevitable delay involved 
obstruction costs have been rising almost one per cent per month). 
A v 
" equirement of conformance with GSA regulations on bidding procedures 
%v°uld pose m o r e serious problems. 
We now require that construction 
c°Hti-acts be awarded on a competitive basis. 
Our procedures differ 
GSA's, however, in that bids are invited f r o m a list of six to 
CO h 
contractors who have been determined to be well qualified. 
This 
Qualification procedure not only assures effective competition, but 
also affords protection against poor workmanship, costly delays, 
Protracted litigation and other expenses sometimes associated with 
c°fttrac.tors that are not prequalified. 
Mr, Cha i r ma n, you and I both are dedicated to eliminating waste 
enever we uncover it. 
But this should be done without incurring 
0 additional costs inherent in the proposals for audit and review 
y GAO and GSA. 
J r 
. °Pe that you will not let our differences on these two issues stand 
the way of consideration by your Committee of legislation to authorize 
Instruction of Federal Reserve branch buildings. 
This legislation is 
P°rtant to the communities concerned, and it is sorely needed to 
^able the branch offices to p e r f o r m their public service functions 
fr-ciently. 
Wit], 
11 warm regards, 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

1 1 9 6 
\ 
4
-
' 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 11 
4/10/73 
W A S H I N G T O N ' , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S DrnciAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O 
T H E 
D D A K U 
April 10, 1973 
Mr. David P. Eastburn, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Dear Mr. Eastburn: 
The Board has considered and approves the revised control 
budget of $52,731,900 for the construction of the new Bank building. 
It is understood that this amount includes architect, engineering 
and construction management fees and costs; a 5 per cent construc-
tion contingency; and a 1 per cent artwork allowance. In addition, 
the control budget now includes items of work for sitework, kitchen 
equipment and partitioning of the sixth and seventh floors which 
were not part of estimated work under the Two-Phase Bidding program. 
The Bank is authorized to (1) award contracts based on 
bids received for work under Phases I and 2; (2) commence con-
struction as soon as practicable; and (3) solicit bids and award 
contracts for the remaining work proposed under Phase 3, providing 
the bids do not exceed, the amounts estimated for this Phase of 
work. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary 

Item No. 9 
4/10/73 
For immediate release 
A p r i l 25, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced additional steps— in the form of expanded authority to the 
Federal Reserve Banks--to expedite the processing of applications 
ro-ceived by the System under the Bank Holding Company Act. 
The Board had previously delegated to the Reserve Banks 
t* K 
G authority to approve certain formations of one-bank holding 
companies and acquisitions by bank holding companies of newly formed 
novo) banks. 
The Board is now expanding this authority by dele-
Bating to the Reserve Banks the authority to approve certain 
formations of holding companies involving more than one bank, 
accluisitions by bank holding companies of existing banks and certain 
types of bank mergers. 
Standards for the exercise of this delegrtion are set: 
°rth in the attached Board order. Applications that fall outside 
those standards must be forwarded to the Board for consideration. 
Tt 
e Board retains authority to deny an application. 
Last year, the System processed 769 holding company and 
l8er applications, compared with 235 during 1971. Of the applica-
t i 
•ons acted upon last year, 447 were handled by the Board while 322 
VA' e * n d led by t h e Fcd e ra 1 Re serve Banks. 

TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS CF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265--RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Bank Acquisitions by Holding Companies 
The Reserve Banks presently have delegated authority to 
pprove o n e bank holding company formations and acquisitions by 
^ s t m g bank holding companies of do novo banks. The Board has 
decid a 
to expand this authority by delegating to the Reserve Banks 
the 
authority to approve bank holding company formations involving 
more th 
an one bank, acquisitions by bank holding companies of existin 
•s ^ d bank merger*, and has set forth standards within which this 
1 ° r U y m a y b a exercised. Applications falling outside these 
standei;dq t - m v 
r 
will be forwarded to the Board for further consideration. 
In order to accomplish this delegation, 0 255.2(f)(22) and 
^ e amended and 5 265.2(f)(28) is added, to read as follows: 
S 265 2 
delegated to__ Boar^eno loyses and Federal 
tte^ervo Banks. 
* 
"" 
" 
1 
(1) gffh_JederaI Reserve Bank is authorized, as to member 
anV-S or nM 
• -
ocner indicated organisations headquartered in its district, 
Urid* 
1 
subparagraph (25) of this paragraph as to Its officers: 
(22) Under the provisions of section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
-ompany Act (12 U.S.C. 1842), to approve the formation of a 
* n k hoi h 
u l n S company through the acquisition bv a company of a 

^ -1- JL 
controlling interest in the voting shares of one or more banks, if 
all of the following conditions are met: 
(i) no member of the Board has indicated an objection prior 
to the Reserve Bank's action. 
(ii) all relevant departments of the Reserve Bank recommend 
approval. 
(iii) no substantive objection to the proposal has been made 
by a bank supervisory authority, the United States Department of 
Justice, or a member of the public. 
(iv) no significant policy issue is raised by the proposal 
as to which the Board has not expressed its view. 
(v) any offer to acquire shares of the bank or banks 
involved will be extended to all shareholders of the same class on 
a substantially equal basis. 2/ 
(vi) considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
of the communities to be served are consistent with or lend weight 
toward approval of the application. 
(vii) in the event any debt is incurred by the holding company 
to purchase shares of any bank involved in the proposal: 
(a) an agreed plan for amortisation of the debt within 
a reasonable time exists, such period normally not exceeding 12 years. 
. i j' 
. 
; " ' 
. 
2/ Less tharTall of the outstanding shares or the bank may be acquired 
provided that wh;;re a greater number of share? are tendered than are 
proposed to be purchased, the offeror will purchase the shares tendered 
on a pro rata basis (except for fractional inttrests) according to 
the number of shares tendered by each shareholder. Where an offer is 
not identical to all shareholders, the burden Is on the applicant to 
damoiisfcrafe the substantial equivalence of the offers extended. 

£ _ 12(H) 
-3~ 
(b) the interest rate on any loan to purchase the bank 
shares will be comparable with other stock collateral loans by the lender 
t o persons of comparable credit standing. 
(c) no compensating balances, specifically attributable 
t o the loan, will be deposited in the lending institution and the amount 
o f any correspondent account which the proposed subsidiary bank will 
Maintain with the lending institution should not exceed the amount 
necessary to compensate the lending bank for correspondent services 
rendered by it to the proposed subsidiary bank. 
(viii) the Reserve Bank determines that the managerial and 
jr . 
nancial resources, including the equity to debt relationships, of 
pplicant, it's existing subsidiaries, and any proposed subsidiary bank, 
adequate, or will be adequate within a reasonable period of time 
after consummation of the proposal, and any debt service requirements 
t o which the holding company may be subject are such as to enable' it 
t o maintain the capital adequacy of any proposed subsidiary bank in the 
f°rseeable future. 
(ix) if Applicant or any of Applicant's existing cr proposed 
l0nbanking subsidiaries compete in the same geographic, and product 
'^rket as any proposed subsidiary bank, the resulting organization 
\ i} 
control no more than ]0 per cent of that product or service line 
after consummation of the proposal. 
(x) total nonbank grcss revenues of Applicant and its 
Buksidiaries do not exceed JO per cent of total operating income of 
the rs proposed banking subsidiaries. 

I „ 1 2 0 1 
w4~ 
(xi) if Applicant engages, or is to engage, in nonbanking 
activities requiring the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act, the Reserve Bank must also have delegated authority to approve the 
section 4(c)(8) activities. 
(xii) if the proposal involves the acquisition of the controlling 
stock of only one bank, and any debt is incurred by the holding company to 
Purchase shares of the bank, the amount of the loan does not exceed 75 per 
cent of the purchase price of the shares of the proposed subsidiary bank. 
(xiii) if the proposal involves the acquisition of the controlling 
stock of more than one bank, the following additional conditions must be 
met: 
(a) in the event any debt is incurred by the holding company 
to purchase shares of any proposed subsidiary banks, the total amount, of 
the debt does not exceed 10 per cent of the equity capital accounts of the 
holding company. 
(b) the Applicant will control no more than 15 per cent of 
total deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
it 
-k 
* 
A 
* 
(24) Under the provisions of section 3(a)(3) of the Eank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842), to approve the acquisition by a bank holding 
c°apany of a controlling interest in the voting shares of an additional 
hank, if all of the following conditions are met: 
(i) no member of the Board has indicated an objection prior to 
tlU: Reserve Bank's action. 

- 
„ 
1
Z
Q
2 
-5-
(ii) all relevant departments of the Pveserve Bank recommend 
approval. 
(iii) no substantive objection to the proposal has been made by 
a hank supervisory authority, the United States Department of Justice, or 
a member of the public. 
(iv) no significant policy issue is raised by the proposal as to 
V7hich the Board has not expressed its view. 
(v) any offer to acquire shares of the bank or banks involved 
^ill be extended to all shareholders of the same class on a substantially 
3/ 
Gflual basis. 
(vi) considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
CcmTriunil ties to be served are consistent with or lead weight toward approval 
o f the application. 
(vii) in the event any debt is incurred *y the holding company 
4. . 
° Purchase shares of any bank involved in the proposal: 
(a) an agreed plan for amortisation of the debt within a 
r°asonable time exists, such period normally not exceeding 12 years, 
(b) the interest rate on any loan to purchase the bank 
shares will be comparable with other stock collateral loans by the lender 
t o persons of comparable credit standing. 
•V 
Less than all of the outstanding shares of the bank may be acquired 
Provided that where a greater number of shares era tendered than are proposed 
he purchasedj, the offeror will purchase the shares tendered on a pro rata 
afsin (except for fractional interests) according t o the number of shares 
tendered by each shareholder. Where an offer i s v.ct identical to all 
^arc-holders, the burden is on the applicant to demonstrate the substantial 
0(luivalence of the offers extended. 
< 

i,. 1203 
(c) no compensating balances, specifically attributable to 
the loan, will be deposited in the lending institution and the amount of 
any correspondent account which the proposed subsidiary bank will maintain 
kith the lending institution should not excecd the amount necessary to 
compensate the lending bank for correspondent services rendered by it to 
the proposed subsidiary bank. 
(viii) the Reserve Bank determines that the managerial and finan-
cial resources, including the equity to debt relationships, of Applicant, 
its existing subsidiaries, and any proposed subsidiary bank, arc adequate, 
will be adequate within a reasonable period of time after consummation 
c~ the proposal, and any debt service requirements to which the holding 
company may be subject arc such as to enable it to maintain the capital 
adequacy of any existing or proposed subsidiary bank in the forseeable 
future. 
(ix) if Applicant or any of Applicant's existing or proposed 
ti°nbanking subsidiaries compete in the same geographic and product market 
a s a ny proposed subsidiary, the resulting organization will not control 
Cl°re than 10 per cent of that product or service line after consummation 
the proposal, 
(x) total nenbank gross revenues of the Applicant and its sub-
d i a r i e s do not exceed 10 per cent of total operating income of the company's 
listing or proposed bank subsidiaries. 
(xi) if Applicant engages, or is to engpr.e, in nonbanking acti-
U-Gt; requiring the Board's approval under section A(c)(8) of the Act, 
Reserve Bank must: also have delegated authority to approve the section 
^ 0 ( 8 ) activities. 

_ 1 2 0 4 
-7-
(xii) in the event any debt is incurred by Applicant to purchase 
ares of the bank, the resulting total acquisition debt of the holding 
c°ftpany will not exceed 10 per cent of the company's equity capital accounts 
Qfter consummation of the proposal. 
(xiii) unless the proposed subsidiary is a proposed nex^ bank, 
Applicant will control no more than 15 per cent of deposits in the State 
consummation of the proposal. 
(xiv) if the bank to be acquired is an existing bank and if no 
kanki^g offices of Applicant's existing subsidiary banks are located in the 
Pi "I'M 
e Hiaxket as the proposed subsidiary, the proposed subsidiary has no 
than $25 million in deposits or controls no v.ore than 15 per cent of 
Ilarl^t deposits. 
(xv) if the bank to be acquired is an existing bank and if any 
Applicant's existing subsidiary banks compete in the same market as the 
l°Posed subsidiary, Applicant will control no more than 10 per cent of 
arfcet deposits after consummation. 
(xvi) if the bank to be acquired is a proposed new bank, bank 
SUlw i . 
of Applicant will not hold in the aggregate more than 20 per 
>f*ut of the commercial bank deposits in the relevant market area and Appli-
ito": be one of the dominant banking organizations in the State. 
(xvii) Applicant has a proven record of furnishing to its 
tl°sidia.cie3, when needed, special services, management, capital funds and 
rri-"» guidance. 
•!< 
»': 
-A 
"k 

Jt_ 1205 
(28) Under the provisions of section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit 
insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), t:o approve a merger, consolidation, acqui-
sition of assets or assumption of liabilities, where the resulting bank is 
a State member bank, if all of the following conditions are met: 
(I) no member of the Board has indicated an objection prior to 
the Reserve Bank's action. 
(ii) all relevant departments of the Reserve Bank recommend approval. 
(iii) no substantive objection to the proposal has been made by a 
kank supervisory authority, the United States Department of Justice, or a 
Member of the public. 
(iv) no significant policy issue is raised by the proposal as to 
ttaich the Board has not expressed its view. 
(v) if the banks do not have offices in the same market, the bank 
be acquired lias no more than $25 million in deposits or controls no 
'"ere than 15 per cent of market deposits. 
(vi) if the banks compete in the sarae banking market., the 
5/ 
r°sulting bank will control no more than 10 per cent of market deposits. 
(vii) if a parent holding company or any of Its subsidiaries 
Competes in the same geographic and product market as the bank to he acquired, 
any of its subsidiaries, the holding company will control no more than 
3-0 per c e n t of that product or service line after consummation of the pro-
y 
I f - ^ t t o : " ~ o l "the~p~L™ponent banks i s a subsidiary of a holding company, 
the parent' company has another bank subsidiary operating in the market 
the bank to he acquired, d e p o s i t s of such o f f i c c - o should be included 
in 
computation of market shares. 
Bee f o o t n o t e k> above. 

f.. 1 2 0 G 
t 
(viii) the Reserve Bank determines that the managerial and 
financial resources, including the equity capital accounts of the resulting 
bank, are adequate, or will be adequate within a reasonable period of time 
after the proposal is consummated. 
(ix) considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served are consistent with, or lend weight toward, 
approval of the application. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
Effective date. This amendment is effective with respect to 
applications accepted by the Reserve Banks after the date of this Order. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

ikviw 
• 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
P. G551 
Item ^o. 5 3 2 0 7 
4/10/73- * 
' l O R E S S 
D F f ' I C I A L 
C O I i R E S P C I N O t t J C t 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
" < April 25 , 1973 
T o THE OFFICERS IN CHARGE OF EXAMINATION, LEGAL, AND 
RESEARCH DEFARTMENTS AT ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Enclosed are two documents concerning the recent delegation 
authority to Federal Reserve Banks to approve on behalf of the Board 
certaj.n applications filed pursuant to the Bank Merger Act and Section 3 
the Bank Holding Company Act. 
The first is a copy of the amendments 
the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority, which include 
criteria the Reserve Banks are to use in determining whether they may 
act under delegated authority„ 
The second document is a set of check 
lists. An appropriate check list is to be completed by the Reserve Bank 
each application processed under delegated authority and is to be 
submitted to the Board as part of a package described below. 
It should be noted that procedures in effect for' acceptance 
Section 3 applications will not change as a result of the new dele-
gation; and Reserve Banks should continue to request the same number of 
c°pies of an application as are requested now. Reserve Banks will 
c°ntinue to review all such applications for legal and informational 
ien::y and for confidentiality, and will prepare and send all 
notifications of receipt (except for notice to be published in the 
federal Register, which will continue to be prepared by the Board's 
legal division). For any case that is to be handled under delegated 
authority, however, only the original copy need be sent to the Clearing 
Ullit at the Board. 
With respect to all merger cases, Reserve Banks should follow 
the same acceptance procedure that will be in effect for Section 3 
applications, reviewing them for legal and informational sufficiency 
and for confidentiality. 
The acceptance letter to the applicant should 
^corporate a request that the proponent banks begin the required 
days' publication of notice as promptly as possible. 
Reserve Banks 
should continue to request the same number of copies of an application 
a s are now requested; and, for any merger case that is to be handled 
Under delegated authority, only the original application need be sent 
t o the Clearing Unit at the Board. 

„ 1 2 0 8 
- 2 -
Rcserve Banks are to send to the Board any case that, does 
n°t meet the delegation criteria and any case in which an officer or 
director of the Applicant or any of its subsidiaries is a director of 
a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. As with respect to all delegations 
°f the Board's authority, a Reserve Bank may also submit any other 
application to the Board for its consideration when, for-any reason, 
the Reserve Bank thinks it inappropriate to act under delegated 
authority„ 
It is important to note that an application may warrant 
"enial on the basis of financial or competitive considerations even 
though all financial and competitive criteria are met, and thus would 
have to be submitted to the Board. When a case is submitted to the 
Board, the transmittal letter should explain why the case is not to 
processed under delegated authority. 
The R e s e r v e Bank will sometimes determine that a case currently 
h " 
' 
°eing processed under delegated authority should no longer be processed 
under that authority. 
In such an event, the Reserve Bank should imme-
diately send three additional copies of the application to the Board, 
along with a transmittal letter explaining why the case no longer seems 
suitable for delegation,, In most situations, it may be helpful for 
Reserve Bank staff to consult with Board staff before making a final 
detcu Tiination on whether or not to handle a case under delegated authority 
Other than changes in internal procedures that Reserve Banks 
lnltiate to institute this additional delegation, no other changes in 
Procedures are necessary until after the necessary waiting period for 
V]°ws and comments on the proposed formation or acquisition has expired. 
Generally within 10 calendar days after expiration of the comment period 
^2 copies of a package,consisting of the checklist, the memorandum, the 
Proposed approval Order, any advisory opinions, and any other public 
comn;ents, should be forwarded to the Clearing Unit at the Board. 
Five working days after receipt of the package at the Board, 
the Reserve Bank will be informed by wire as to whether the Board objects 
0 r does not object to approval under delegated authority. 
(If the 
Reserve Bank does not receive a wire within 10 working days after the 
Package is mailed, please notify me.) If the wire states that there is 
110 objection by the Board, the Reserve Bark should then inform the 
aPPlicant by telephone of the approval action, release the. approval 
Grder to the public., send the Order to the applicant and to the Clearing 
^uit, and notify the appropriate supervisory authorities and the Depart-
ment of Justice. If there is an objection, the Reserve Bank will be 
advised of the nature of the problem and of the procedures to be followed. 

1 2 0 9 ; 
-3~ 
Ordinarily the Reserve Bank will be asked to send three additional copies 
°f the application t.o the Clearing Unit, and t:o prepare for the Board an 
additional memorandum that generally will deal only with the points 
Raised in the objection. 
/ 
/ 
, 
It is anticipated that, a number of questions \vxil 
I oe after 
the enclosed material has been received. Please convey these to Board 
staff, who will attempt to collect, answer and disseminate to all Reserve 
Banks all principal questions and answers as quickly as possible. 
It 
wight also be noted that a substantial portion of the System Casework 
Conference to be held on May 21-23 will be devoted to discussion of the 
new delegation. 
William W. Wiles 
Deputy Program Director 
for Banking Structure 

1 2 1 0 
Item No. 11 
4/10/73 
' tVjSrfi'Tl ,-^>-4" 
b o a r d 
O F 
g o v e r n o r s 
O F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
April 16, 1973 
PERSONAL - CONFIDENTIAL 
Dr. 0. Meredith Wilson, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco 
P.O. Box 7702 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Dr. Wilson: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System has approved the appointment of John B. Williams 
as First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco effective June 1, 1973, for the unexpired 
portion of the term ending February 29, 1976. Also, the 
Board approved an annual salary of $40,000 for Mr. Williams 
for the period June 1 through December 31, 1973. 
We would appreciate receiving an up-dated bio-
graphical sketch and photograph of Mr. Williams for our 
files. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Executive Director 
