MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 8, 19 73 

A tr ft 
JLi)<K 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 8, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

155B 
5/8/73 
-2-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Garwood, Adviser, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, to make an 
additional investment in bank premises. A copy of the letter sent 
to the bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire 
indirectly through its Venezuelan subsidiary, Inversiones y Adelantos 
C.A., shares of CITI DATA, C.A., both in Caracas. A copy of the letter 
sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the application 
of Worcester County National Bank, Worcester, Massachusetts, to establish 
a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Legal Division in a 
memorandum of May 3, 1973, the Board unanimously approved a letter to 
counsel for the New York Stock Exchange relating to the applicability 
of section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 to interlocking relationships 
between a limited purpose trust company organized by the Exchange and 
persons primarily engaged in the securities business. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 4. 

1557 
5/8/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously denied the application of First Interna-
tional Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to Arlington Bank & Trust, Arlington, Texas, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the application 
of CBT Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut, to acquire shares of General 
Discount Corporation, and thereby indirectly to acquire shares of 
G.D.C. Leasing Corporation and General Discount Corporation (Maine), 
all with head offices in Boston, Massachusetts. 
It was understood 
that implementing documents would be prepared for the Board's consid-
eration . 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Report on competitive factors. A draft report to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of First New Jersey Bank, Union, New Jersey, with 
Franklin State Bank, Franklin Township, New Jersey, concluded that the 
overall effect on competition would be adverse. After discussion during 
a majority preference developed for describing the competitive effect 
as slightly adverse, the report was approved for transmittal to the 
Corporation in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
There is some existing and potential competition between 
First New Jersey Bank, Union, and Franklin State Bank, Franklin 
Township. However, numerous alternative banking facilities will 
remain in the area, and the overall competitive effect would 
be slightly adverse. 

1558 
5/8/73 
-4-
Governor Brimmer took the position that the effect of the merger on 
competition would be adverse. 
Congressional testimony. Governor Bucher was scheduled to 
testify on May 17, 1973, before the Subcommittee on Consumer Finance 
of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. Background 
was provided by the staff in a memorandum dated May 4, 1973, regarding 
the report of the National Commission on Consumer Finance. 
After discussion of various points of view on those aspects 
of the policy proposals made in the Commission's report that involved 
areas of Board responsibility, it was understood that a draft of 
testimony would be prepared for consideration at another Board meeting. 
Mr, Burke, Director of the Division of Personnel Administration, 
then entered the room and the meeting continued with limited staff 
attendance. 
Equal Employment Opportunity. Mr. Burke submitted for Board 
approval proposed amendments to Board's Equal Employment Opportunity 
Regulations and Procedures as presented in a memorandum dated April 19, 
1973, from the Legal Division. In addition, Mr. Layton, Director of 
Equal Employment Opportunity, in a memorandum dated May 7, 1973, asked 
for approval of an Affirmative Action Plan covering the period July 1, 
1973, to June 30, 1974. 
In commenting on Mr. Layton's memorandum, Mr. Burke stated that 
minority employees represented 3.8 per cent of the Board's staff between 

1559 
5/8/73 
-5-
grades FR-11 and 13. He noted that Board plans called for increasing 
the number of minority employees to 5 per cent in grades FR-11 and 
above by June 30, 1974. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the proposed 
amendments to the Board's Equal Employment Opportunity Regulations and 
Procedures and also the Affirmative Action Plan. 
It was understood that when Mr. Layton returned to work from 
his recent illness he would further report to the Board members on the 
Board's program. 
Staff members not directly connected with discussion of the 
next item withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
FOMC policy record entry. Against the background of memoranda 
dated May 4 and April 12, 1973, from the Federal Open Market Committee 
Secretariat, the Board discussed at Governor Daane's request the advis-
ability of including additional quantitative information concerning the 
Committee's objectives in the published policy record entries beginning 
with that for the meeting of February 13, 1973. 
After discussion, it was agreed that the staff recommendations 
should not be implemented with the entry for February 13, pending 
further consideration. The Board approved the revised draft of the 
policy record for the February 13 FOMC meeting for inclusion in the 
Board's Annual Report for 1973 on the understanding that the content 
of certain passages would be modified to conform to the format previously 
used. 

1560 
5/8/73 
-6-
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
4:00 p.m. with all members of the Board present except Governor Mitchell. 
The following staff members attended: Messrs. Holland, Smith, Altmann, 
Bernard, Broida, Feldberg, Partee, Hackley, Coyne, O'Brien, O'Connell, 
and Axilrod. 
Discount rate. Subject to review and determination by the 
Board of Governors, the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland and San Francisco had voted to establish on April 26 and May 3, 
1973, respectively, a rate of 6 per cent (an increase from 5-3/4 per cent) 
on discounts for and advances to member banks under section 13 and 13a 
of the Federal Reserve Act. The directors had also acted to establish 
appropriately corresponding subsidiary rates on advances under other 
sections of the Act. 
Chairman Burns indicated that he was in favor of approving 
the higher rate. He noted that short-term market rates had risen 
considerably over the course of recent weeks and banks were in the 
process of raising the prime rate to 7 per cent for large business 
borrowers. The Treasury's May financing had imposed a constraint on 
raising the discount rate earlier, but he believed that a modest move 
could now be made and that it would be desirable in order to bring 
the discount rate into better alignment with short-term market rates. 
If the other Board members agreed that a higher discount rate 
was desirable, Chairman Burns continued, he would suggest two alternative 
procedures that might be followed. First, the Board might approve a 

15 (il 
5/8/73 
-7-
6 per cent rate today and defer the public announcement and effective 
date until Thursday and Friday of this week, respectively. This approach 
would give additional Reserve Banks an opportunity to consider the new 
rate. Should the Board choose to follow this course, he would recommend 
that he be given the authority to delay the announcement if some unfore-
seen development should make a delay advisable. A second procedure 
would be for the Board to agree on the higher rate in principle today 
but to defer a formal vote until Thursday when several Reserve Banks 
would be holding board meetings. Either procedure would be acceptable 
to him. 
In the ensuing discussion the other Board members indicated 
that they were all in favor of raising the discount rate to 6 per cent 
this week. Views differed, however, on the exact timing of such a move. 
Governor Daane said he favored the first approach of voting 
today and making the announcement on Thursday. He noted that he would 
not be present on Thursday, and apart from his desire to be recorded 
as voting in favor of the action, he felt that a five-man vote would 
provide 
a better record for a discount rate action than a four-man 
vote. Governor Daane added that he had some slight reservations about 
raising the discount rate before the May 15 payment date for the new 
Treasury securities; but in light of the steady conditions in the 
Treasury bond market and the progress made by the dealers in distributing 
their awards of the new issues, he would not want to delay the proposed 
increase in the discount rate. 

5/8/73 
-8-
Governor Brimmer said his first preference would be to approve 
a 1/4 percentage point increase today and also to announce the Board's 
decision today. Alternatively, he would favor delaying the vote and 
the announcement until Thursday. He had strong reservations regarding 
the first procedure outlined by Chairman Burns, because it would give 
rise to the danger of a leak of information. On the basis of past 
experience, he believed any such leak would be highly damaging to the 
Federal Reserve, 
Governor Sheehan said he would favor approving the 1/4 percentage 
point increase today and announcing the Board's action on Thursday. He 
noted that unforeseen developments might well cut Board attendance below 
a quorum on Thursday. 
In that event, the proposed action would be 
delayed beyond the current week if the vote were postponed today. He 
recognized the risk of a leak of information that would be incurred, 
but since the move would be a relatively modest one, the potential 
damage would be greatly reduced. Weighing against this procedural 
problem was the much more significant problem in his view of Board 
relationships with the Reserve Bank directors. He thought it was very 
important to give the directors at the other Reserve Banks an opportunity 
to participate with the two lead Banks in the contemplated increase. 
Governor Bucher said he had no strong feelings regarding the 
exact timing of the Board's vote, but he saw merit in limiting the time 
that would elapse between the Board's vote and the press announcement 
in order to minimize the danger of a leak of information. He also had 

5/8/73 
-9-
a slight preference for announcing an increase early in the week rather 
than later, since a delay would tend to give commercial banks an excuse 
to raise the prime loan rate beyond the 7 per cent level to which they 
were currently moving. Accordingly, his first preference would be to 
approve 
and announce the increase today; his second to approve and 
announce it on Thursday. He could also vote for the first procedural 
alternative outlined by Chairman Burns. 
After brief further consideration, it was agreed to defer action 
on the discount rate until Thursday to allow time for additional Reserve 
Banks to consider establishing a 6 per cent rate. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1564 
jv)f- cow'.- • 
-- & 
• 
B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N G R S 
O F 
T H E 
EDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2055! 
Item No. 1 
5/8/73 
. a o u r e s s 
o r r t c i A t . 
c d r r e s p d n d e n c : 
T D 
T H C 
U U A R D 
May 8, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Bank of the Commonwealth 
Detr oit, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant t:o the provisions of; Section 24A of the Federal 
Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves an investment in bank premises of $450,600 by Bank of the 
Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan. The latter amount includes 
$253,000 for the expansion and remodeling of your main office and 
$197,600 for the renovation and addition of a drive-in system at 
yo.it Grand River-Outer Drive Office. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

i i l i l i ! * -
-^Crtfy 
BOARD D F G O V E R N • RS 
\ 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
15 Of 
Item"No. 2 
5/8/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1973 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 5, 1973, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to continue 
to hold the shares of Inversiones y Adelantos C.A. ("I.nadeca") , Caracas, 
Venezuela, after Inadeca acquires all the shares of CITI DATA, C.A., 
Caracas, Venezuela, at a cost of approximately Bs.200,000 (about $46,000), 
Provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of CITI DATA, C.A. by FNCOIC is granted subject to the 
condition that CITI DATA, C.A. confine its activities to the provision 
of data processing services in Venezuela and neighboring countries and 
activities incidental to that business. 
The Board's consent is also granted subject to the condition 
that, when requested by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC will furnish the 
Board with such reports regarding the activities of CITI DATA, C.A. as 
it may require, from time to time and maintain at its head office all 
such information as is necessary for a proper evaluation of the activi-
ties of CITI DATA, C.A. by the Board's examiners. 
The. foregoing consent is given on the condition that the in-
vestment will bo made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

is m 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Dfr the 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/8/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 
1973 
Worcester County National Bank 
44 6 Main Street 
Worcester, Massachusetts 
01608 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Worcester County National Bank, Worcester, Massa-
chusetts, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and not as a 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
going permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, 
(2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Section 213.7(a) or the ex-
clusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the further 
condition that adequate information covering the branch's operations will 
be maintained at your head office and will be available to the Board and 
its accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly informed of 
any modification in the branch's methods of operation, including changes 
in any contract under .which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before June 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall be 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 

\ 
Worcester County National Bank 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks„ 
In these circumstances, it has long been and con-
tinues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, neces-
sary purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in the con-
duct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on re-
sources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it Is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
_ 1567 
- 2 -

m^m*. 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
5/8/73 
I il|ggsj& .* 
• V r e s ^ - ' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1973 
Sullivan & Cromwell 
48 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter dated March 27, 1973 
concerning the applicability of section 32 of the Banking Act of 
1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) to service by persons primarily engaged in the 
securities business as directors, or members of committees ap-
pointed by the board of directors, of The Depository Trust Company 
("DTC"), New York, New York. DTC is a limited purpose trust company 
chartered under the New York banking law and is subject to the 
supervisory policies of the Banking Board of the State of New York; 
in addition, it has recently been approved for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. For further information concerning DTC, 
reference is made to your letter dated March 27, 1973 and to the 
Board's letter to you of February 1, 1973, all of which information 
is incorporated herein by reference. 
In a letter dated February 1, 1973 to counsel to Pacific 
Securities Depository ("PSD"), a limited purpose trust company 
organized under California law, the Board opined, for the reasons 
set forth therein, that section 32 does not prohibit persons pri-
marily engaged in the securities business, as described in that 
statute, from serving ori the board of directors of PSD. (It is our 
understanding that you are in receipt of a copy of this letter.) 
It appears that the services to be offered by DTC are essentially 
the same as those to be performed by PSD. Although, as you note, 
California law provides a separate chartering process for commercial 
banks and trust companies, while New York law does not, you further 
state that a Supervisory Policy of the New York Banking Board permits 
the chartering of the trust company for a limited purpose without the 
offering of significant commercial bank services and it is in accord-
ance with this Policy that DTC was chartered. Accordingly, for the 

1569 
Sullivan & Cromwell 
-2 
reasons set forth in the above-mentioned letter of the Board to 
counsel to PSD, the Board is of the opinion that section 32 
does not prohibit persons primarily engaged in activities de-
scribed in that statute from serving on the board of directors, 
or on committees appointed by the board of directors, ui u . 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1570 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
5/8/73 
FIRST INTERNATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less 
directors1 qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to Arlington 
Bank & Trust, Arlington, Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank 
is to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate 
the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the 
proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization is 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
Interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls two banks with aggregate deposits of 
$1.7 billion, representing 5,6 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State, and is the largest bank holding company 
in Texas. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972.) Applicant's 
acquisition of Bank ($65.5 million in deposits) would not represent 
a significant increase in Applicant's share of total deposits in 
the State. 

- 2 
15 
Applicant presently controls through direct stock owner-
ship one bank in the Dallas banking market, approximated by the 
i / 
Dallas RMA,- and holds 23.4 per cent of total market deposits, there-
by ranking as the second largest of the 106 banking organizations in 
that market. Bank, the largest of six banks in Arlington, also com-
petes in this banking market and controls 1.0 per cent of total 
market deposits thereby ranking as the eighth largest of the 106 
banking organizations in the market. If this application were 
approved, Applicant would remain the second largest banking organiza-
tion in the market and would control 24.4 per cent of total deposits. 
There is substantial commuting between Dallas and Arlington. 
Traffic patterns suggest considerable integration of the two areas, 
and banks in each area use advertising media that reaches the other, 
further, large Dallas banks serve a significant number of commercial 
and industrial loan accounts in Arlington, and there appear to be no 
significant differences in banking hours, service charges, savings 
account rates, and services offered, among banks located in Dallas 
and Arlington. The similarity in competitive behavior among banks 
in these two areas apparently reflects the substantial integration 
the two areas that has occurred and that appears likely to 
i/ RMA refers to Ranally Metro Area which is defined as the central 
city plus every community, 8 per cent or more of the total population 
which, or 15 per cent or more of the labor force of which, commutes 
to the central city, based on the Census of Population. No community, 
per cent or more of the labor force of which is engaged in agriculture, 
is included in an RMA. 

- 3 -
1572 
accelerate with the recent establishment and effectiveness of the 
North Central Texas Council of Governments and the extensive economic 
development that has been and should continue to be induced by the 
Regional Airport to be completed near Arlington in the near future„ 
Bank and Applicants Dallas subsidiary bank are only 
twenty miles apart. Applicant's Dallas bank derives a significant 
number of demand deposit and commercial and industrial and installment 
l°an accounts from Bank's service area and, although Bank is the 
Ingest bank in its service area, Applicant's Dallas bank has an 
amount of commercial and industrial loans outstanding to accounts 
Bank's service area that is six times larger than the amount of 
commercial and industrial loans outstanding at Bank. The Dallas 
banking market is highly concentrated with 62 per cent of total 
market deposits being held by the three largest banking organizations; 
approval of this application would aggravate this already high level 
°f concentration. Bank is one of the largest independent banks in 
the market. It is especially attractive as a potential affiliate 
a bank holding company making its initial entry into the area. 
The acquisition of Bank by a banking organization not 
Presently represented in the Dallas banking market would have a 
salutary effect on the existing high degree of deposit concentration 
Present in this market. The Board concludes, therefore, that the 
competitive factors relating to this application are adverse; that 
c°nsummation of the proposed transaction would (1) eliminate some 
listing competition between Applicant's lead bank and Bank; 

1573 
(2) eliminate a banking alternative in this concentrated market; 
(3) increase deposit concentration among the largest organizations 
in the Dallas market; and (4) remove Bank as a potential means of 
entry by other organizations not presently represented in this 
market. Accordingly, competitive considerations require denial 
of this application unless the anticompetitive effects of the 
proposal are outweighed by benefits to the public in meeting the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
The financial condition and managerial resources and future 
prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks appear generally 
satisfactory. The financial condition and managerial resources of 
Bank are considered to be generally satisfactory, and prospects for 
its future growth and development are favorable; its deposits have 
increased approximately 63 per cent during the last five years. 
Thus, banking factors are consistent with approval but provide no 
significant support for such action. 
The banking needs of the residents of the Dallas area 
appear to be adequately served at the present time by existing 
facilities. Consummation of the proposed transaction would have 
little impact on the convenience and needs of banking customers 
in the area. Accordingly, considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served do not outweigh the adverse 
competitive effects of the proposal. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not be in the public 
interest and that the application should be denied. 

•5-
f. 1574 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied 
for the reasons summarized above. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective May 8, 1973, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
iTvoting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell, 
