MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 14, 19 73 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, May 14, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics JL/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The staff presented a review of domestic and international 
developments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings 
°f the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical 
Materials prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, 
along with copies of the individual briefings. 
1/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

_ 1650 
5/14/73 
-2-
Mr. Cardon then reviewed legislative developments of interest 
to the System, after which members of the staff who had attended only 
for the economic review withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office 
of Executive Director 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the 
General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of Wells Fargo Bank International, New York, New York, for permission (1) 
indirectly to acquire shares of a merchant bank to be formed in Hong 
Kong, and (2) for the merchant bank to issue debt obligations. A copy 
°f the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Marine Midland 
Bank-New York, New York, New York, for an extension of time to continue 
to hold stock in a foreign bank received as a result of debts previously 
contracted in good faith. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The First 
National Bank of Boston, Boston, Massachusetts, to establish an Edge 
corporation in Los Angeles, California, to be known as Bank of Boston 
International Los Angeles. Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant, with which was transmitted a preliminary 
Permit. 

1653 
5/14/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of BancOhio 
Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of the successor by 
merger to The Cummings Bank Company, Carrollton, Ohio, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 4 . 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its 
approval, on May 8, 1973, of the application of CBT Corporation, 
Hartford, Connecticut, to acquire shares of General Discount Corpora-
tion, and thereby indirectly to acquire shares of G.D.C. Leasing 
Corporation and General Discount Corporation (Maine), all with head 
offices in Boston, Massachusetts. A copy of the order is attached 
under Item No. 5, along with a copy of a dissenting statement by 
Governor Brimmer. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in a memorandum of May 10, 1973, in which the Committee 
on Federal Reserve Bank Activities, Committee on Federal Reserve Bank 
Computers, and System Steering Committee on Improving the Payments 
Mechanism concurred, the Board unanimously approved a proposal by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston to expand the Boston immediate payment 
a
^ e a . A copy of the letter sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation. 
In a 
memorandum of May 2, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 

1 6 5 k 
5/14/73 
-4-
recommended approval of the application of First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Citicorp 
Financial Services Limited of Canada, Montreal, Canada. 
At today's meeting the staff called attention to a request by 
the applicant that, if the Board approved the application, that fact be 
kept confidential for 30 days for reasons related to proposed legisla-
tion in Canada. Staff suggested that it would be inappropriate to 
accede to that request and that, if the Board approved the application, 
the usual procedures should be followed. 
Action was deferred to permit further attention to be given to 
the question raised. 
Monetary policy proposals. At the meetings on March 9 and 
April 4, 1973, the Board discussed proposals developed by the staff 
for possible monetary policy actions in a tight money environment. 
Since then additional documentation had been prepared, with some 
modifications of the earlier proposals. The question was presented 
for renewed attention at the present time because the monetary climate 
appeared to be giving stronger signals of the possible need for action. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated sentiment among members 
°f the Board that action in 
the current environment would be timely and 
that the package of proposals developed by the staff was generally appro-
priate. Comments were made also on questions of timing and procedure. 

5/14/73 
-5-
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the Board 
would revert to the question within the next few days. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N • R B 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
® 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
5/14/73 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 14, 1973 
Wells Fargo Bank International 
40 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
G e n t l e m e n : 
As requested in your letter of March 28, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("WFBI") to continue 
to hold the shares of Wells Fargo International Investment Corporation 
("WFIIC"), San Francisco, California, after WFIIC acquires 40 per cent 
a finance company in Hong Kong ("FC") at a cost of approximately 
^$20,000,000 (about $3,933,000), provided $1,966,000 is invested ' 
within one year from the date of this letter. In this connection, 
approval is also granted for the indirect purchase and holding of 
shares of FC by ycur Corporation in excess of the applicable limita-
tions set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] 
of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and indirect 
holding of shares of FC by WFBI is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That WFBI shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FC if FC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if FC. establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Hong Kong or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to WFBI if WFBI were 
not engaged in banking; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, WFBI 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FC as it may require from time to 
time; and 

- v W * 
1655 
Wells Fargo Bank International 
-2-
o 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FC be 
reported under Section 211.3(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if FC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the previsions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter^so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), 
and ( c ) of Regulation K. 
You have requested consent for FC to engage in the business 
of underwriting or dealing in securities. 
The Board's consent to such 
activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining the prior 
consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares of FC should 
FC acquire stock of individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 
or representing 25 per cent or more of the voting shares of any com-
pany, except in the case of underwriting operations covered by firm 
commitments from subunderwriters or other purchasers. With respect 
to trading in securities ir. which Corporations are prohibited from 
investing by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned 
°n the fact that FC will acquire such shares only as dealer or under-
writer, maintain a size and turnover of inventory that is reasonable 
in relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within a reasonable 
time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported uirler Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K, 
However, they are 
to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of acquisi-
tion, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested by 
the Board. 
You have requested consent for FC to engage in the business 
of providing consulting services outside the United States. 
The Board's 
consent, is granted subject tc the condition that such services relating 
to the U.S. market will be confined to the initial entry of foreign 
companies into that market. 
The Board also grants consent for WFBI to continue to hold 
indirectly the shares of FC after FC issues and has outstanding debt 
obligations with a maturity in excess of one year in an amount not to 
exceed $10,000,000. 

i i > 5 6 
-3-
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of FC. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and its af-
filiates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOAWD 
May 14, 1973 
Marine Midland Bank-New York 
140 Broadway 
New York, New York 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of April 17, 1973, 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 213.4(a) of Regulation M , extends to May 14, 1974, 
the time for the disposition of your bank's holding of 
stock of Banco de Asuncion, Asuncion, Paraguay, which was 
acquired to prevent a loss upon a debt previously contracted 
in good faitho 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
165 
Item N o . 2 
5/14/73 

. 
1 G 5 8 
Item N o . 3 
5/14/73 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 14, 1973 
The First National Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02110 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Asso-
ciation and the Organization Certificate, dated March 30, 1973, of 
Bank of Boston International Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, 
and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corpora-
tion to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
Authorizing it generally to commence business. 
Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
°
r
 secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
^y citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States 
or by fi rms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
s
tock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
ias been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
P
aj
-d in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription, 
^hereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment 
the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accord-
a
n c e with law. The request for a final permit should be forwarded to 
the Board via the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Bank of Boston 
-nternational Los Angeles will have no separate base under the foreign 

The First National Bank of Boston 
-2-
credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans and investments 
will need to be made under the ceiling of The First National Bank 
of Boston. 
Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given on tbP con-
dition that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation 
will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they 
apply to The First National Bank of Boston and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
E n c l o s u r e 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
a F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
5 Y E T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , Q . C . 
2 0 S 5 I 
May 14, 1973 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated March 30, 1973, of BANK OF BOSTON INTERNATIONAL LOS ANGELES 
duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that BANK OF BOSTON 
INTERNATIONAL LOS ANGELES is authorized to exercise such of the 
powers conferred upon it by said Section 2.5(a) as are incidental 
and preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
°f said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
°f Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, a bank holding company 
Within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
t h e
 Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12. U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to 
acquire 100 per cent (less directors
1
 qualifying shares) of the voting 
shares of the successor by merger to The Cummings Bank Company, Carrollton, 
°hio ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no signifi-
cance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting 
s
hares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the 
Accessor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition 
o f
 the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
®
 3
(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
Qh J 
n
one has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
t l 0
* in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company in Ohio, controls 
36 
~
f 
b
anks with aggregate deposits of $2.1 billion, 
representing 8.6 per 
o f
 total commercial bank deposits in the State. Bank ($13.4 million 
•jr 
banking data are of June 30, 1972, and reflect holding company 
N a t i o n s and acquisitions approved through April 30, 1973. 
1661 
Item No. 4 
5/14/73 

-2-
^ deposits), the second largest of three banks located in the Carrollton 
banking 
market (approximated by Carroll County), controls approximately 
^ per cent of deposits in commercial banks in the market. 
Although Applicant has subsidiaries in each of three counties 
th
at border Carroll County, it does not presently operate in the 
Ca
rrollton banking market. Applicant's subsidiary closest to Bank is 
lo
Cated 18 miles away, and there is no significant competition between 
and any of Applicant's subsidiaries. Consummation of the acquisition 
w
°uld not appear to alter the concentration of deposits and loans nor reduce 
^ 
number of banking alternatives present in the area. In view of Ohio's 
te
strictive branching law, the sparse population and rural orientation of 
intervening areas, Carroll County's limited economic prospects, and 
t l l e
 low population to banking office ratio, it does not appear likely that 
^aningful 
competition between Bank and Applicant would develop in the 
f u t
ure. Accordingly, the Board concludes that competitive considerations 
consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
0 f Applicant are regarded as satisfactory- those of Bank are regarded 
generally satisfactory and are expected to improve under the 
leadership of Applicant. Accordingly, considerations relating to the 
factors are consistent x^ith approval of the application. 
Applicant proposes to provide Bank with credit analysis, loan 
a d v
isory services, and trust services. Considerations relating to the 
Q
Onvenience and needs of the community to be served are consistent with 

_ 1663 
-3-
a
Pproval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the applica-
tion should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
t^e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(
a
) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
t h l s
 Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r b
y the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 14, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
fi
ucher. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

_ 1GG4 
Item N o . 5 
5/14/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CBT CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of General Discount Corporation 
CBT Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of 
the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of General 
discount Corporation ("Company") and thereby to indirectly acquire voting 
shares of Company's subsidiaries G.D.C. Leasing Corporation and General 
Discount Corporation (Maine), all with head offices in Boston, Massachusetts. 
T
he proposed subsidiaries engage in the activities of commercial financing 
a
nd full pay-out leasing of equipment. Such activities have been deter-
mined by the Board to be closely related to the business of banking (12 
C F
* 225.4(a)(1), (3), and (6)).\ 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
i 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
b e
en duly published (38 Federal Register 6926). The time for filing 
I 
> 
comments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
V \ 
Applicant, the second latgest banking organization in Connecticut, 
controls two banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.0 billion, 
^Presenting 18 
per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in the 
s
tate. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972.) Applicant also has 
n
°nbanking subsidiaries engaged principally in accounts receivable and 
inventory financing, equipment leasing, data processing, real estate 
financing, and investment advisory services. 

1665 
-2-
Company, organized in 1923, has total assets of $11.8 million 
a
s of September 30, 1972, total loans outstanding of $9.7 million and total 
lease receivables of $2.3 million as of December 31, 1971. Company is 
Primarily engaged in commercial finance activities, including making loans 
secured by accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, and 
r
eal estate. Company has operated three s u b s i d i a r i - e s r w i t h h a a d - f i c e s 
B o s t o n : 
(1) General Discount Corporation (Maine) which has conducted 
the same type of business as Company in Maine, but has been dormant for 
the past two years, (2) G.D.C. Leasing Corporation which engages in full 
Pay-out leasing of equipment whereby the cost of equipment, the cost of 
financing and a prollt are realized during the initial lease term; and 
R e a d y Rent-All Systems Inc. ("Ready"), which corvlucts a franchise 
a n
d financing business with respect to retail rental outlets. Applicant 
has committed that Company will divest itself of all interest in Reaay 
Prior to Applicant's acquisition of Company. Applicant has also agreed to 
terminate a servicing contract between G.D.C. Leasing Corporation and a 
computer leasing company within thirty days of consummation of this proposal. 
Applicant presently operates two commercial finance subsidiaries: 
Connecticut Commercial Corporation ("Commercial"), located in Connecticut; 
atl
<l Lazere Financial Corporation ("Lazere"), located in New York. Although 
Company, Lazere and Commercial are engaged in similar business activities, 
c
omp a ny derived less than 1 per cent of its total loans from the market 
area served by either Lazere or Commercial, and Lazere and Commercial have 
n
° loans outstanding in Company's market area. Accordingly, Applicant's 

_ 1606 
-3-
a c
q u i s i t i o n of Company would not result in any significant adverse effects 
°n existing commercial finance business competition. Due to the distances 
Se
Parating Company, Commercial, and Lazere, and the fact that it is unlikely 
Applicant would enter Company's market de novo absent this proposal, it 
appears that no significant potential commercial finance competition would 
b e
 eliminated upon consummation of this proposal. 
Applicant, through its subsidiary CBT Leasing Corporation and its 
l e
ad subsidiary bank, The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, is engaged 
i n
 equipment leasing. However, the market area for Applicant's existing 
leasing subsidiaries is Connecticut, while the market area for Company's 
basing subsidiary is Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island. 
*t appears that Company's leasing subsidiary derived only 1.1 per cent 
o f
 its total leases, by dollar volume, from Connecticut and that neither 
o f
 Applicant's existing leasing subsidiaries derived any equipment leasing 
business from Leasing's market areas. Accordingly, it does not appear 
that any significant existing equipment leasing competition would be 
el
iminated upon consummation of this proposal. Similarly, it is unlikely 
that any significant equipment leasing competition between Applicant s 
listing subsidiaries and Company's leasing subsidiary would develop in 
the future, due to the distinct geographic areas served by the respective 
c
ompanies. On the basis of these and other facts of record the Board 
c
°ncludes that Applicant's acquisition of Company would not have any 
s i
& n i f i c a n t adverse effect on existing or potential competition. 

- a - 
1 6 6 7 
It appears that the proposed acquisition would not result in 
a n
y undue concentration of resources, conflicts of interests, unsound 
banking practices, or any other adverse effects on the public interest. 
It:
 is anticipated that affiliation with Applicant will provide Company 
with greater access to capital, increase its ability to expand its 
a v
erage loans outstanding, and thereby enable it to compete more effectively 
i n
 the markets it serves. 
In its consideration of this application, 
^ e Board has examined covenants not to compete contained in employment 
a
Sreements with GDC's three principal executives. The Board finds that 
the provisions of such covenants are reasonable in duration, scope, and 
S^ographic area and are consistent with the public interest. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
the 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
ir
*terest factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
i s
 favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^termination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) 
°f R e g u l a t i o n Y and to the Board's a u t h o r i t y to r e q u i r e such m o d i f i c a -
t
ion or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of 
^ s subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
t
he provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
°
r
ders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective Hay 14, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/" V o t i n g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Sheehan, 
ari(i
 Bucher. Voting against this action: Governor Brimmer. Absent and 
n
°t Voting: Governor Mitchell. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I would deny CBT Corporation's application to acquire General 
discount Corporation ("GDC"). I would do so for the same reason that I 
v
°ted against the application of Orbanco, Inc. (38 Federal Register 11136). 
Part of the proposed transaction, GDC's three principal executive officers 
w i
U enter into employment agreements that contain provisions prohibiting 
e a c
h of them from competing with GDC for the next ten years. These provi-
sions, commonly known as covenants not to compete, will prevent GDC's 
Principal executives from providing their business experience to either an 
listing or future competitor of GDC. The net result can only be a lessening 
competition—a result that is inconsistent with the promotion of compe-
tition and is thus in conflict with the standards of the Bank Holding Company 
Act. 
In acting upon an application under § 4(c)(8) of the Act, the 
fi
°ard is required to determine whether the acquisition can reasonably be 
e
*Pected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, 
Creased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible 
Averse effects, such as decreased or unfair competition. Thus, the Board 
i s
 required by law to deny an application where the possible adverse effects 
a r e
 not outweighed by benefits to the public. 
Covenants not to compete limit individuals from providing their 
a b
iliti es to alternative business enterprises and thereby from fostering 
^Petition in that line of business activity. Therefore, the Board's 

1669 
- 2 -
a
P p r o v a l of an a c q u i s i t i o n c o n t a i n i n g such c o v e n a n t s m u s t of n e c e s s i t y 
re
sult in sanctioning a decrease in competition. The resulting decrease 
in 
competition is not outweighed by other public interest considerations 
Resented in this application. For these reasons, I would deny this 
a
P P l i c a t i o n . 
^ y 14, 1973 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE 3 OAR D 
M r . Frank E . Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear M r . Morris: 
The Board of Governors approves the pro-
posal to expand the Boston overnight clearing area. 
We understand that implementation of this plan will 
not involve increasing the Bank's present employment 
ceiling or incurring expenditures above the first 
half 1973 budget ceiling approved by the Board for 
the Boston District in its letter dated January 26, 
1973. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
.. 1670 
Item N o . 6 
5/14/73 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary 
