MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 27, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 3 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Banks of 
Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and 
Dallas. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, July 27, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:45 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 2/ 
Mr. Brimmer 3/ 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr, Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 4/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 47 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr, Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
1/ 
Entered morning and afternoon sessions at points indicated 
in minutes. 
2/ Entered morning session and withdrew from afternoon session 
at points indicated in minutes. 
3/ Withdrew from afternoon session at point indicated in minutes. 
4V Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2888 
7/27/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of First & Merchants Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares 
of First & Merchants National Bank of Tidewater, Chesapeake, Virginia, 
a proposed new bank, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Alabama Bancorpo-
ration, Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
to The American National Bank of Huntsville, Huntsville, Alabama, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation in a memorandum dated July 24, 1973, the Board unanimously 
approved a further extension of time for United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, 
New Jersey, to comply with the Board's order of February 17, 1972, insofar 
as it relates to the elimination of the home office protection held by 
The City National Bank of Millville, Millville, New Jersey. A copy of 
the letter sent to United Jersey Banks is attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chairman Burns and Governor Daane entered the meeting at this 
point. 
Economic review. The regular weekly economic and financial 
review was presented. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of 
the individual briefings. 

7/27/73 
-3-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. On July 26, 1973, the boards of directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago, St, Louis, Minneapolis, 
and Dallas had voted to establish, subject to review and determination 
by the Board of Governors, a rate of 7-1/2 per cent on their loans to 
member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The current rate at all the Banks was 7 per cent. The directors had 
also acted to establish correspondingly higher rates on advances 
under other sections of the Act. 
The staff reported that all sectors of the debt markets had 
weakened dramatically yesterday and thus far this morning, apparently 
reflecting the spreading expectation that efforts to curb strong 
demands for money and credit would bring interest rates under further 
upward pressure. In this atmosphere, Treasury officials and the 
System Account Manager had expressed concern regarding the reception 
of $2.0 billion Treasury notes and $5 00 million Treasury bonds scheduled 
to be auctioned on July 31 and August 1, respectively. 
The members of the Board agreed that the current Treasury 
financing and the sensitive conditions in the debt markets dictated 
against approving a higher discount rate at this time. Governors Daane 
and Brimmer indicated that they otherwise would have favored approval 
of the proposed increase, but Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 

2890 
7/27/73 
-4-
Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland observed that they would still have had 
reservations about moving to a higher rate today. 
In further discussion, the Board members discussed possible 
approaches to controlling the level of member bank borrowings when 
market rates were substantially above the discount rate and the 
increased problems of assuring uniform administration of the discount 
window in such circumstances. It was agreed that the matter required 
further staff study and that the present would not be a good time to 
introduce new approaches to the administration of the discount function. 
After further brief consideration the Board by unanimous vote 
disapproved the pending discount rate increases, with the understanding 
that a letter outlining the reasons for the Board's decision would be 
sent to the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
and Dallas. It was also understood that the substance of the letter, 
without identification of the Banks involved, would be communicated to 
the Presidents of the other Federal Reserve Banks. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
is attached as Item No. 4; similar letters were sent to the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas. A copy of the memo-
randum sent to the Presidents of the other Federal Reserve Banks is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
Other discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland and Richmond on July 26, 1973, of the 

2831 
7/27/73 
-5-
rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
All staff members except Mr. Melnicoff then withdrew. 
Presidency at Richmond. Mr. Melnicoff reported on the latest 
information obtained with respect to possible candidates for the 
Presidency of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Mr. Melnicoff then withdrew from the meeting. 
After discussion, the Board voted unanimously to approve the 
appointment of Robert P. Black as President of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond for the unexpired portion of the five-year term ending 
February 29, 1976, subject to discussion by Chairman Burns and Governor 
Sheehan with Mr. Black concerning the Richmond Reserve Bank's operations 
and staffing. It was understood that Chairman Burns and Governor Sheehan 
would report back to the Board on their discussion with Mr. Black at a 
subsequent meeting. 
A number of staff members who had been present earlier then 
returned to the meeting. 
BankAmerica Corporation. At its meeting yesterday the Board 
discussed, but deferred action on, the application of BankAmerica 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, to acquire GAC Finance, Inc., 
Allentown, Pennsylvania. Subsequent to yesterday's meeting the following 
additional documentation had been distributed to Board members: (1) a 
memorandum from staff of the Division of Research and Statistics dated 

zswz 
1/21/13 
-6-
July 26, 1973, regarding the effect of bankruptcy on GAC Finance, and 
(2) a memorandum from Mr. Leavitt also dated July 26. 
In connection with the Board's consideration today of the 
financial condition of GAC Finance, one Board member noted that GAC 
Finance appeared to be having principally a liquidity problem and 
not necessarily a long-run earnings problem. Accordingly, he believed 
that insolvency of the company probably could be averted, in the 
event that BankAmerica Corporation's application were denied, if the 
Federal Reserve were to extend credit to GAC Finance. Staff members 
concurred in the conclusion that the System could lend to GAC Finance, 
either directly or through a member bank. Further discussion developed 
agreement by other Board members with the aforementioned Board member's 
view on the outlook for the financial condition of GAC Finance. 
The issue of concentration of resources also was discussed 
further at today's meeting. One Board member stated that if BankAmerica 
Corporation were to propose to divest itself of all offices of GAC 
Finance west of the Mississippi River within two years of consummating 
the acquisition, such divestiture would substantially reduce his concern 
with the concentration of resources issue involved in the proposal. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:00 p.m. with all Board members present except Chairman Burns. The 
following staff members were present: 

2893 
7/27/73 
-7-
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Nicoll, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the 
General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
D. H. Baldwin Company. At yesterday's meeting the Board had 
discussed the application of D. H. Baldwin Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
to acquire shares of Nordenco, Inc., and indirectly of North Denver 
Bank, both in Denver, Colorado. 
At today's meeting, Mr. Leavitt reported that he had spoken 
with Baldwin's general counsel and had expressed the Board's concern 
regarding Baldwin's intention to retain Empire Savings and Loan Association, 
Denver, Colorado, until 1981, and had indicated the Board's preference 
that Baldwin commit itself to an earlier divestiture as part of its bank 

28; M 
7/27/73 
-8-
acquisition plan. Baldwin's general counsel responded that because 
Empire Savings and Loan was Baldwin's biggest income generator, early 
divestiture would be a major corporate decision and no commitment by 
Baldwin would be possible at this time. It was expected, however, that 
a decision by Baldwin would be made within about a month. 
After discussion, the Board agreed to defer further consideration 
of this application pending receipt of an indication of Baldwin's plans 
with respect to Empire Savings and Loan Association. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting at this point. 
BankAmerica Corporation. The Board resumed consideration of 
the application of BankAmerica Corporation, San Francisco, California, 
to acquire GAC Finance, Inc., Allentown, Pennsylvania. 
Discussion focused on the undue concentration of resources 
issue and on the competitive effects of the proposal. In discussing 
the question of undue concentration of economic resources, one Board 
member expressed the view that this concept, in transcending traditional 
competitive considerations, goes to the social philosophy of the country. 
He stated further that he endorsed a philosophy that would preclude a 
merger as large as this and, accordingly, he would vote to deny the 
instant proposal. 
Other Board members voiced concern that not enough attention 
had been given to the public benefits that they believed would accrue 
from approval, particularly in view of the uncertain financial condition 
of GAC Finance and of the possible repercussions in financial markets 
if it were to fail. 

7/27/73 
-9-
After further discussion, the Board denied the application, 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sheehan dissenting. It was understood 
that an order reflecting denial of the application would be issued 
immediately along with a press release and that BankAmerica would be 
informed of the Board's decision concurrently. It was further under-
stood that a statement would be prepared as soon as possible for the 
Board's consideration, and that a dissenting statement would also be 
prepared. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
Governors Daane and Brimmer withdrew from the meeting at this 
point. 
Patagonia Corporation. In a memorandum dated July 25, 1973, 
the staff recommended approval of the application of Patagonia Corpo-
ration, Tucson, Arizona, to acquire Western American Insurance Agency, 
Phoenix, Arizona, conditioned upon Western American limiting its sales 
of non-credit related insurance to 5 per cent of its total insurance 
business. 
The Board unanimously approved the application with the recom-
mended condition and authorized issuance of an order, with a change in 
language, reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 7. A letter was sent to the applicant in the form attached as 
Item No. 8. 
Tennessee Valley Bancorp. In a memorandum dated July 19, 1973, 
the staff recommended approval of the application of Tennessee Valley 

7/27/73 
-10-
Bancorp, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee, to acquire shares of Kimbrough-
Kavanaugh and Associates, Inc., a mortgage banking company, also in 
Nashvilie. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 9. 
First National City Bank. On July 26, 1973, the Board had 
unanimously approved the application of First National City Bank, 
New York, New York, to acquire shares of Citibank Holdings GMBH, 
Frankfurt, Germany, subject to the concurrence of the Deutsche 
Bundesbank. 
It was reported today that the Deutsche Bundesbank had been 
contacted with respect to this matter and had indicated that it was 
fully informed of, and had no objection to, the application. Accordingly, 
it was understood that First National City Bank would be informed of 
the Board's approval. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached 
as I tern No. 10. 
Chase Manhattan Corporation. In a memorandum dated July 13, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of The Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, 
to acquire shares of a merchant bank to be organized in Hong Kong, to 
be known as Orion Pacific Limited. 
The Board unanimously approved the application. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 11. 

281)7 
1/21/13 
- 1 1 -
In connection with this application, Governor Mitchell voiced 
concern about the increasing trend of U.S. banks operating overseas 
to form permanent relationships with major foreign banks through 
consortia such as Orion; he felt this trend was one that should be 
watched. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
7/27/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEIi 
FIRST & MERCHANTS CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First & Merchants Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of First & Merchants National Bank 
of Tidewater, Chesapeake, Virginia (trBank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in light of the factors set for in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of 
$1.0 billion, and is the third largest banking organization in the 
State of Virginia. Bank is a proposed new bank (projected deposits 
of approximately $70 million) that will acquire substantially all of 
the assets and liabilities of the fourteen Tidewater area branches of 
First & Merchants National Bank, Richmond, Virginia. (All banking 
data are as of December 31, 1972.) 

2833 
-2-
The proposal- constitutes a corporate reorganization and 
1/ 
represents no expansion of corporate interests. 
Consummation of 
the proposed transaction, therefore, would not eliminate either 
existing or potential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant are satisfactory. Bank, which at the outset will depend 
on those members of management of Applicant who are familiar with the 
Tidewater area, appears to have satisfactory management. The financial 
resources of Bank appear adequate. The initial capitalization of Bank 
is $1 million, but upon acquisition of the fourteen branches, capital 
will be increased to $6.5 million. The future prospects of Bank also 
are good. There is evidence that the market is somewhat underbanked 
at present and so factors relating to the convenience and needs of 
the community lend some weight in favor of approval of the application. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
that date, and (c) First & Merchants National Bank of Tidewater, 
Chesapeake, Virginia, shall be opened for business not later than 
six months after the effective date of this Order. Each of the 
. 1/ Bank will be able to expand in an area anproximated by the Tidewater 
area banking market, whereas First & Merchants National Bank could not expand. 
Appropriate regulatory approval will be needed for each new branch. 

29G0 
-3-
periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by 
the Roard, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,~ effective July 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Daane. 

_ 2 9 
Item No. 2 
7/27/73 
FEDEFAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ALABAMA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Alabama Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) of the 
voting shares of the successor by merger to The American National Bank 
of Huntsville, Huntsville, Alabama ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank 
is to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate 
the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
acquisition of shares of the successor organization is treated herein 
as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act. 
Applicant controls five banks with total deposits of $972.6 
million, representing 14.3 per cent of the total deposits of commercial 

-2-
banks in Alabama.!./ Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $22.7 million) 
would not significantly increase the concentration of banking resources 
in Alabama. 
Bank is the smallest of six banks serving Madison County 
(the relevant market) where it holds a market share of approximately 
7.5 per cent. Applicant presently has no banking subsidiaries in this 
market, and its closest subsidiary draws only a small percentage of any 
type of account from Madison County. Consequently, approval of this 
application would not eliminate any substantial existing competition 
between Bank and Applicant's banking subsidiaries. The relevant banking 
market appears attractive for de novo entry; however, Applicant's acqui-
sition of Bank is comparable to, and would have the same economic effect 
as> a de novo entry by Applicant.2/ Consequently, approval of this appli-
cation would not have a substantially adverse effect on future competition 
between Applicant and Bank. 
Applicant's nonbanking subsidiary, Engel Mortgage Company 
("Engel"), has an office in Huntsville. Engel's mortgage loans are pri-
marily on one-to-four family houses. However, in both 1971 and 1972 
T/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, except where otherwise 
noted, and represent bank holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board through May 31, 1973. 
2/ See Mr. Justice Marshall's suggestion that "the practical difference 
between entry by acquisition and entry de novo may be marginal in the 
case of a dominant entrant11 in his concurring opinion in United States 
v. Falstaff Brewing Corp., 41 LW 4352, fn 14. (1973) 

2903 
-3-
Bank made no permanent mortgage loans on one-to-four family homes so that 
acquisition of Bank by Applicant would not eliminate any actual com-
petition in this product line. Though consummation of the transaction 
would possibly eliminate some future competition between Bank and Engel, 
there are uany alternative sources of mortgage credit in the market. 
Consequently, approval of the application would not have substantially 
adverse effects on competition in mortgage banking. On the basis of the 
facts of record, the Board concludes that competitive considerations 
are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial condition and managerial resources and future 
prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are satisfactory, 
particularly in light of Applicant's conuiitment to increase the capital 
of Bank. This factor provides added weight to the banking factors 
involved in the Board's consideration of the application. Considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the community to be served are 
consistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's judg-
ment that consummation of the proposed transaction would be in the pub-
lic interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 

_ 2904 
-4r 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,3/ effective July 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Hitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Sheefyan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting; Chairman Bums 
and Governor Daane, 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 3 
O F T H E 
7 / 2 7 / 7 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 27, 1973 
Mr. Ralph D. Spencer, Jr. 
Vice President 
United Jersey Banks 
90 Nassau Street 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540 
Dear Mr. Spencer: 
This refers to your letter of June 21, 1973, concerning 
your request for a further extension of time to comply with the Beard's 
Order of February 17, 1972, insofar as it relates to the elimination of 
the home office protection held by The City National Bank of Millville, 
Millville, New Jersey. 
The Board has considered your request in the light of the 
facts you have presented and other information available to us conccrning 
the status of home office protection in New Jersey. Chi the basis of this 
information, the Board has approved an extension of time from August 17, 
1973, to November 17, 1973, to comply with the Board's Order which was 
conditioned upon the elimination of home office protection held by The 
City National Bank of Millville, Millville, New Jersey. 
The Board expects that immediate action will be taken to 
comply with the condition of its Order, and that no further extension 
of time will be requested. 
Yours sincerely 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
cc: Mr. Fred W, Piderit, Jr. 
Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
£ 9 0 6 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
7/27/73' 4 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 27, 1973 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis 
President 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors voted today to disapprove the 
pending increase in your Bank's discount rate from 7 to 7-1/2 per 
cent which your board of directors acted to establish at their 
meeting on July 26. The Board's decision was influenced mainly 
by the desirability of avoiding an overt policy action at this 
time in light of the current Treasury financing and in view of 
the presently sensitive state of credit markets. 
While reaching a decision at this time that differs 
from that of your directors, the Board members appreciate having 
had the benefit of their considered judgment and they have asked 
me to convey their appreciation. 
Yours sincerely, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
0
r
T
H
t 
T 
vr 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/27/73"' 
' 
l i c e C o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
_ 
D a t e July 
1 9 7 3 — 
IL Federal Reserve Bank Presidents 
Subject: 
Board Discount Rate 
Normand Bernard 
f[j ,\/ J • 
Action on July 27, 1973 
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL 
In keeping with the practice established some time 
ago, there follows the substance of a letter sent to four Federal 
R e s e r v e Banks whose directors had voted to establish discount 
rates of 7 - 1 / 2 per cent. 
The Board's decision was influenced 
. mainly by the desirability of avoiding an overt 
policy action at this time in light of the current 
Treasury financing and in view of the presently 
sensitive state of credit markets. 

2908 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
7/27/73 
BANKAMERICA CORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of GAC Finance, Inc. 
BankAmerica Corporation, San Francisco, California, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board1s approval, under § § 4(c)(8) and (13) of the Act 
and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Boardfs Regulation Y, to acquire voting shares 
of GAC Finance, Inc., Allentown, Pennsylvania. GAC Finance, Inc..through 
its subsidiaries engages in the activities of making direct loans to con-
sumers; purchasing sales finance paper; financing inventory of distributors 
of and dealers in various consumer durable goods through agreements with 
manufacturers in the case of distributors and with distributors in the 
case of dealers; servicing manufacturer-funded receivables arising from 
inventory financing by certain manufacturers of consumer durable goods; 
rediscount financing for non-affiliated consumer sales finance companies; 
and sale to its direct consumer borrowers of credit life and credit health 
and accident insurance and of insurance coverage against damage to personal 
property securing extensions of credit made by the subsidiary to its direct 
consumer borrowers. Such activities have been specified by the Board in 
§ 225.4(a) of Regulation Y as permissible for bank holding companies, 
subject to Board approval of individual proposals in accordance with 
the procedures of § 225.4(b). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 6103). The time for filing 

_ 2909 
- 2 -
comments and views has expired, and the Board has considered all comments 
received, including those of the Department of Justice, in the light of 
the public interest factors set forth in § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1843(c)(8)), 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for the 
reasons set forth in the Board's Statement, which will be released at a 
later date. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-'' effective July 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Bucher, 
and Holland. Voting against this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and 
Sheehan. 

2910 
Item No. 7 
7/27/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PATAGONIA CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Western American Insurance Agency 
Patagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.4(b)(2)), to acquire 
Western American Insurance Agency, Phoenix, Arizona ("Agency") and thereby 
to engage in insurance agency activities. Certain insurance agency activi-
ties have been determined by the Board to be closely related to the business 
of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been duly published (38 Federal 
Register 3013)."^ The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered all comments received in light of the public 
2/ 
interest factors set forth in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
1/ The published notice of this application included notice of a related 
application to acquire Western American Mortgage Company, Phoenix, Arizona. 
When the National Association of Insurance Agents, Inc. and related parties 
objected to the proposed acquisition of Agency and requested a hearing thereon, 
Applicant requested separate consideration by the Board of the two applica-
tions. Subsequently, the Board approved the acquisition of the mortgage 
company effective June 29, 1973. 
2/ The National Association of Insurance Agents and related parties filed a 
petition on February 22, 1973, objecting to approval of this application and 
requesting a hearing be held upon the application. On March 6, 1973, the Board 
directed that a hearing be held on this application, among others. The Ad-
ministrative Law Judge designated to conduct the proceeding upon the applica-
tion scheduled a hearing. Subsequently, the objectors to the application and 
the Applicant reached agreement among themselves whereby the objections to the 
application were withdrawn and whereby Applicant agreed to be bound by the 
final outcome of other specified applications to engage in insurance agency 
activities. On June 22, 1973, the Administrative Law Judge dismissed the 
application from the docket and referred the application back to the Board. 

2 9 1 1 , 
- 2 -
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in Arizona, 
controls one bank with aggregate deposits of $207 million representing 
4 per cent of the total deposits of commercial banks in Arizona. (All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1972.) Applicant has nonbanking 
subsidiaries which are engaged principally in consumer finance activities, 
leasing of personal property and equipment, and operating a savings and 
loan association. Applicant has recently received Board approval to 
acquire Western American Mortgage Company, Phoenix, Arizona ("Mortgage 
Company"). 
Applicant proposed to acquire Agency, which has been operated 
by Mortgage Company's former controlling shareholder in conjunction with 
Mortgage Company's activities. Agency had gross insurance premiums of 
$640 thousand and gross commission income of $170 thousand for the year 
ending March 31, 1972. Approximately $400 thousand of the insurance pre-
miums resulted from the sale of declining coverage term life insurance 
Policies where the coverage was equal to the outstanding balance of a 
mortgage held or serviced by Mortgage Company, and the sale of homeowners 
insurance policies and fire and casualty policies where the primary coverage 
°f the policies protects collateral which formed the basis for an extension 
credit by Mortgage Company or secures a mortgage serviced by Mortgage 
Company. Thus, approximately 60 per cent of Agency's gross insurance 
Premiums and gross commission income appears to be directly related to 
a n extension of credit by Mortgage Company or directly related to the 
Provision of other financial services by Mortgage Company. While some 

2 9 1 
-3-
of the remaining insurance sales of Agency are made to employees of 
Mortgage Company and customers or former customers of Mortgage Company, 
the bulk of the remaining insurance premiums appear to be the result 
of the acquisition of several smaller insurance agencies by Agency. 
Based on its past operations, Agency's activities x^ould not 
appear to be permissible activities for a bank holding company subsidiary 
under § 225.4(a)(9) of Regulation Y in that a substantial portion of 
Agency's business is not directly related to an extension of credit or 
the provision of other financial services by the mortgage company with 
which Agency was affiliated. However, Applicant states that Agency no 
longer actively solicits general insurance business and will reduce the 
scope of such Agency activities in the future if the application is 
approved. In order to assure that Agency is not operated as a general 
insurance agency, approval of the proposed acquisition is conditioned 
upon reduction of that portion of the Agency's premium income which 
is not directly related to an extension of credit by Mortgage Company 
or directly related to the provision of other financial services by 
Mortgage Company to less than 5 per cent of the premium income of Agency 
3/ 
attributable to directly related coverage- within two years from the 
effective date of this Order. 
Although Applicant engages in certain insurance agency activities 
through a number of its existing subsidiaries, approval of the proposed 
acquisition would not eliminate any significant existing competition 
3/ This condition does not apply to premium income which is permissible 
under § 225.4(a)(9)(i). 

2913 
-4-
between Applicant's subsidiaries and Agency because of the limited 
nature of the respective insurance activities. For example, Applicant's 
subsidiaries sell only a nominal amount of insurance for the protection 
of real property. Nor does it appear that affiliation of Agency with 
Applicant would adversely effect the numerous existing competitors in 
the Tucson and Phoenix areas where Mortgage Company and Agency are 
engaged in business. 
It is anticipated that the pruviiic*. of .'syrnranc.e by Agency 
will provide a convenient alternative source of insurance agency service 
for customers of Mortgage Company. There is no evidence in the record 
indicating that consummation of the proposed transaction would result 
in any undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, conflicts 
of interests, unsound banking practices or other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved conditioned 
upon the reduction of Agency's premium income which is not directly 
related to an extension of credit by Mortgage Company or directly related 
to the provision of other financial services by Mortgage Company to less 
than 5 per cent of the premium income of Agency attributable to the directly 
related coverage within two years from the effective date of this Order. 

2914 
-5-
The transaction shall not be consummated later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
This determination is also subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.4(c)) and to the Board's authority to require 
such modification or termination of the activities of a holding company 
or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,effective July 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester 3. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
4/ Voting for~this action: Chairman Burns and 
Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Brimmer. 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
*y 
Item No. 8 
X o 
O F T H E 
7/27/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D H R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Jul> 30, 1973 
AIR_ M I L - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Patagonia Corporation 
149 North Stone Avenue 
Tucson, Arizona 85701 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application, filed pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act, of Patagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, 
to acquire the outstanding shares of Western American Insurance Agency, 
Phoenix, Arizona. 
With respect to the "general insurance agency" business of 
Western American Insurance Agency, the Board has allowed a two-year 
period to permit orderly disposal and expiration of existing insurance 
agency policies and has relied upon Patagonia's respresentation that 
such business is 110 longer actively sought. 
The Board, in response to an objection to approval of the 
application and a request for a hearing thereon, ordered a hearing upon the 
application. Patagonia Corporation and the objecting parties to the 
application reached an agreement by stipulation whereby the objections 
and the request for a hearing were withdrawn and whereby Patagonia indicated 
its "willingness to be bound by the final decision or decision related 
thereto which may emanate from the hearings on the other Applications" which 
the Board ordered on March 6, 1973. As part of the stipulation, Patagonia 
requested as a condition to approval of the Application that Patagonia 
be obligated to cause Western American Insurance Agency to limit, restrict, 
terminate, cr otherwise modify any insurance activity in conformity with 
the final outcome of those applications to engage in insurance agency 
activities upon which hearings have been or will be held pursuant to the 
Board's March 6 Order. 
The Board is not a party to the stipulation and regards it 
as inappropriate to grant the requested condition. However, as you will 
note from the last paragraph of the Order, the Board retains continuing 

Patagonia Corporation 
-2 
authority to require modification or termination of the activities of 
Western American Insurance Agency to assure compliance with the Act and 
. the Board's regulation thereunder. 
Enclosed is material related to the Board's action. 
Very truly yours, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures: 1. Press Release 
2. Order 

: 2917 
Item No. 9 
7 111 113 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TENNESSEE VALLEY BANCORP, INC, 
Order Approving Acquisition of 
Kimbrough-Kavanaugh and Associates, Inc. 
Tennessee Valley Bancorp, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire 90 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Kimbrough-Kavanaugh and Associates, 
Inc., Nashville, Tennessee ("Company"), a company that engages in 
the activities of mortgage banking, including mortgage origination 
and servicing, sale of insurance directly related to such mortgages 
subject to prescribed limitations imposed by Tennessee law; apprais-
als of real estate for Company and its subsidiaries, and construc-
tion lending. Such activities have been determined by the Board to 
be closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), (3) 
and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public 
interest factors, has been duly published (38 Federal Register 
16112). The time for filing comraeuto aud views has expired, and 
none has been timely received. 

- 2 -
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of 
$664 million, representing 6.4 per cent of the total deposits in 
commercial banks in Tennessee. Applicant's lead bank, Commerce 
Union Bank, Nashville, Tennessee ("Commerce Bank"), with deposits 
of $608^million is the third largest bank in the Nashville banking 
market. 
Commerce Bank is engaged in the origination and servicing 
of permanent loans on one-to-four.family residences and loans on income 
producing properties. It also makes construction loans. In its most 
recent fiscal year, Commerce Bank originated 1.6 per cent of all 
mortgages placed on one-to four family residences in Davidson County, 
and 2.9 per cent of all mortgages on income-producing properties in 
that area. The dollar volume of its construction loans totalled 
$17.3 million in the same period. Applicant does not presently own 
directly or indirectly any nonbanking subsidiaries. 
Company's main office is in Nashville, Tennessee. It 
also owns Kimbrough-Kavanaugh and Associates, Inc., of Kentucky, 
Louisville, Kentucky. Applicant proposes that the Nashville 
office would continue to engage in construction lending; mortgage 
originating and servicing (residential, commercial and multi-family); 
in the sale of insurance related to mortgage lending activies; 
and would also appraise real estate for Applicant and its sub-
sidiaries. The operations of the Louisville, Kentucky, office 
would continue to be primarily involved in originating and servicing 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, unless.otherwise noted. 

-3-
2919 
loans on income properties, both commercial and multi-family residen-
tial. Applicant also proposes that Company retain shares in Kenneth 
Smith & Associates, Nashville, Tennessee, which performs data pro-
cessing services for Company and its subsidiary offices. Applicant 
further states that Company's (including its subsidiaries) equity 
interests in real estate which are not utilized as offices in its 
mortgage banking activities and property m a n a g e m e n t services related 
thereto will be liquidated or discontinued, respectively, prior to 
consummation of the acquisition, provided the Board approves the 
application. Applicant also proposes that Company will continue the 
sale of property insurance and mortgage insurance for mortgage loans 
that it arranges or services upon request of customers. The Company 
will not act as an agent for either type of.insurance but will place 
such insurance with unaffiliated agencies on a c o m m i s s i o n basis. 
Applicant assures the Board that all such insurance activities will 
be conducted in accordance with a determination by the 
T e n n e s s e e 
Commissioner of Insurance regarding their permissibility under a 
recently enacted amendment to Section 56-721 of the T e n n e s s e e Code 
Annotated. 
Company is one of 16 mortgage companies with offices in 
Davidson County. It makes no construction loans and originated but 
1 per cent of all mortgages placed on one-to-four family residences 
in Davidson County in 1972. Thus, consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would not eliminate any s i g n i f i c a n t . c o m p e t i t i o n between 

2920 
-4-
Commerce Bank and Company in either of these product lines. Company 
is also engaged in the origination of mortgages on income-producing 
properties. However, only 48 per cent of its loans in fiscal 1972 
on income-producing properties were made on property situated in 
Davidson County. Similarly, only 49 per cent of those loans origi-
nated by Commerce Bank in 1972 were on properties in Davidson County. 
It appears that lenders located in the County do not confine their 
mortgage originations on income-producing property to the County 
itself but that they compete with many potential suppliers located 
outside the County. In view of the regional scope of the market 
for loans on income-producing property and the large number of existing 
competitors for such loans, the Board concludes that consummation of 
the proposal would not substantially lessen competition in loans 
originated on income-producing property in Davidson County nor 
adversely affect competition within the regional market for such 
loans. 
Based on the foregoing and other considerations in the 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) 
is favorable, and the application is hereby approved subject to the 
following conditions: (1) divestiture prior to consummation of the 
acquisition of Company's (including its subsidiaries) equity interests 
in all real estate not utilized in its mortgage banking activities, 
and discontinuance of property management services in connection 
with such interests; and (2) discontinuance of insurance activities 

by Company which are determined by the Tennessee Commissioner of 
Insurance to be impermissible under State law. The acquisition 
shall not be consummated later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Eank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
This determination is subject to the conditions set forth in 
§ 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require 
such modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to 
assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and 
the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent 
evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 30, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
17 Voting for""this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Daane and Brimmer. 

BOARD DF GDVERNGRS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
o q o o 
Item No. 10 
7/27/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 31, 1973 
First National City Bank 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter dated July 10, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your bank to acquire and hold all of 
the shares or other evidences of ownership of Citibank Holdings GMBH, 
to be organized and domiciled in Frankfurt, West Germany, at a cost of 
up to DM350,000,000 (approximately $154,000,000), provided such shares 
or other evidences of ownership are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. This consent is granted on condition that without 
further Board approval, Citibank Holdings will not undertake any activi-
ties other than the temporary investment of its capital funds in deposit 
placements or other short-term liquid instruments. 
It is the Board's understanding that the purpose of Citibank 
Holdings is to serve as an entity through which your bank might invest 
in foreign banks in accordance with the provisions of Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M. The Board further understands 
that negotiations are currently in process by your bank to acquire owner-
ship interests in certain German banking institutions. The granting of^ 
this consent is not to be construed as prejudicing in any way the Board's 
actions on such acquisitions, when presented, or its ability to take into 
account all relevant factors, such as the nature and activities of the 
institutions involved and their consistency with provisions of law and 
the effects of the proposed acquisition on the financial condition of 
your bank, its capital position, and its plans to achieve and maintain 
adequate capital. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the invest-
ment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they 
apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates and will not involve 
any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No, 11 
7/27/73 
I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
• 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 30, 1973 
Hie Chase Manhattan Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 4, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
as amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for The 
Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, to purchase 
and hold up to 20 per cent of the shares of a merchant bank 
to be organized under the laws of, and located in, the 
Colony of Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately $2,500,000, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition 
that the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidelines as they apply to The Chase Manhattan 
Bank, National Association, and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
..•'oVgoV^; 
:oY 
V. 
\y. 
OV; • .; . .. 
n 
:•: • *f: tv U! 
<\m--m' 
* ; *<AL , • 
B O A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
o r r 
T1 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
