MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Federal Advisory Council 
November 2, 1973 

4 2 5 7 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C., at 10:30 a.m. 
on Friday, November 2, 19 73. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. English, Dorrance, Fultz, Storrs, 
Bassett, Morey, Lind, Miller, Bond, and 
Rogers, Members of the Federal Advisory 
Council from the First, Third, Fourth, 
Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, 
Eleventh, and Twelfth Federal Reserve 
Districts, respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of 
the Council 
Mr. Hauge, the member of the Council from the Second Federal 
Reserve District, was unable to attend the meeting, and in his absence 
the District was represented by Mr. Gordon T. Wallis, Chairman of the 
Board, Irving Trust Company, New York, New York. Mr. Stults, the 
member of the Council from the Seventh Federal Reserve District, had 
planned to attend the Council's separate meeting yesterday, but had 
received news that required his immediate return to Chicago. 

4 ^ 5 8 
-2-
Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the outlook 
for general economic activity to mid-1974? 
In particular, how do Council members view 
the prospects for inventory investment and 
residential construction in this period? 
The members of the Council expect the rate of economic 
growth to slow gradually between now and mid-1974. There already is 
evidence that the rise in consumer expenditures is moderating from 
the unsustainable rapid pace in the early months of this year. This 
will be most evident in the durable sectors, including automobiles, 
furniture, and appliances, reflecting in part the decline in housing 
starts. However, major retailers anticipate a good Christmas season 
although there are some inventory shortages. 
The slower growth in consumer expenditures will be offset 
in part by a further rise in the manufacture of business equipment 
as capital investment by business continues to rise. An additional 
offset to the softening in domestic sales will be some further rise 
in exports of U.S. manufactured goods. 
Inventory investment is expected to increase. 
Increasing 
numbers of businessmen complain of shortages of many items and of 
delays in delivery. 
No material improvement in home building activity is 
expected between now and mid-1974. 
The outlook in the months ahead is also clouded by the 
growing uncertainty of the energy situation. 
President Dorrance commented that the Council members were 
slightly more optimistic about the outlook for real growth in economic 
activity than they had been at the time of the September meeting, when 
the consensus had centered on expectations of a zero to 2 per cent rate 
of growth in the first quarter of 1974. Retailers expected sales to 
move slowly, just a little above last year, but then to spurt in the 
final shopping days before Christmas. 
11/2/73 
1. 

4 2 5 9 
11/2/73 
-3-
There ensued comments on the question whether increased sales 
would reflect dollar or physical volume. Most retailers appeared to 
expect at least some increase in physical volume, with a greater 
increase in dollar volume. However, appraisal of retailer comments 
was difficult, because they typically made comparisons with year-earlier 
results and not on the basis of seasonally-adjusted trends. Moreover, 
sales expectations might not be realized because of shortages in inven-
tories, which in turn would be partly related to the energy crisis, to 
scarcities of materials, and to the discontinuation of some lines of 
merchandise that had become unprofitable because of wage/price controls. 
On the other hand, sales lost because of shortages in one area might be 
offset by increased sales volume in another. The prospective energy 
shortage was of grave concern to members of the Council, who cited a 
number of instances in which its effects were already being felt. 
2. Financial developments. 
A. How do Council members evaluate the current and 
prospective demands for business, agricultural, 
and other types of bank loans? Have recent move-
ments in market interest rates significantly 
affected such loan demands by diverting business 
financing to or from the money and capital markets? 
Total bank loan demand continues relatively strong although 
demand has been less intense in recent weeks than in the earlier months 
of 1973. 
The anticipated slowing of the economy should result in some 
moderation in the demand for bank loans by business. Agricultural loan 
demand should continue strong because of larger crops at higher prices. 

42G0 
11/2/73 
-4-
Consumer borrowing from banks probably will ease reflecting the expected 
reduced level of consumer buying of durables. 
The recent decline in money market rates has diverted some 
business financing in a number of areas from banks to the money markets. 
In response to an inquiry whether the easing of loan demand 
was being experienced generally, Messrs. Storrs and Lind said that 
demand continued strong in their Districts. Mr. English spoke of some 
weakening of the consumer component because of declining automobile 
sales. He also noted that demand for mortgage loans had moderated 
because of high interest rates and other factors. Members of the 
Council commented that the recent decrease in the prime rate did not 
reflect substantially lessened loan demand but was principally attri-
butable to other forces, such as the drop in the cost to banks of 
borrowed money. 
Governor Holland inquired what the reaction had been to the 
September increase in marginal reserve requirements on large-denomina-
tion certificates of deposit. Replies indicated that the increased cost 
had shifted emphasis from CD's as a source of funds to other alternatives, 
such as Federal funds. That shift, however, also reflected the fact that 
as bankers became convinced that short-term rates were moving downward, 
they preferred to shorten their liabilities by using Federal funds 
rather than two or three-month CD's. 
Chairman Burns asked whether, in retrospect, the increase in 
reserve requirements in September was regarded as salutary from a public 

11/2/73 
-5-
policy viewpoint. Responses indicated that although it was difficult 
to measure psychological impact, there might have been some benefit 
in making customers more aware that the Federal Reserve was signaling 
a need for banks to curtail their lending. One member of the Council 
suggested that the recent easing in loan demand was probably related 
more to monetary policy actions that had been taken earlier in the 
year. Mr. Bond observed that the increase in required reserves had 
been in harmony with the view the Council had expressed at the last 
meeting when it had recommended that if further tightening was needed, 
it should be accomplished through reserve requirements rather than 
through interest rate ceilings that would keep banks out of the market. 
Mr. English expressed the view that although the action had served 
for a few days as a signal that credit expansion should be restricted, 
its impact was soon overshadowed by a change in expectations regarding 
monetary policy and a related drop in Treasury bill rates. He replied 
in the negative to a question whether the increase in reserve require-
ments might have had some influence in inducing the ensuing events. 
B. Have banks' lending policies changed appreciably 
since our September meeting, and are such policies 
having a significant impact on current loan takedowns? 
Most members of the Council believe that bank lending policies 
have not changed appreciably since the September meeting. Many bankers 
instituted less accommodating policies earlier in the year and these 
policies, together with a lower rate of monetary growth, have tended to 
limit loan expansion. A few members of the Council report some signs that 
bankers in their areas are reassessing their policies in the expectation 
of changing economic conditions. 

V >1 1 
11/2/73 
- 6 -
President Dorrance said that while the Council believed that 
strict loan policies were continuing to prevail in general, examples 
of some easing had increased recently. 
A member of the Board asked whether an unusual situation was 
reflected in the remark made to him recently by the head of a large 
bank to the effect that his loan officers were out hunting for business. 
One member of the Council said that that would be very unusual in his 
District; banks were still being very selective in lending. However, 
another member spoke of a large bank that was reviewing its policy on 
making acquisition loans, and a third member commented on efforts by 
some major money market banks to generate loan demand. Mr. Wallis 
remarked that bank officers whose jobs were related to loan demand 
became concerned when any signs of decline occurred, but that did not 
necessarily mean that loan policies had changed. Moreover, even if 
loans were sought more aggressively, it might take some time for results 
to appear in commitments. Mr. Bond expressed agreement with the latter 
observation; there was just as much of a lag when bankers wanted to 
increase loans as when they tried to cut back. Also, banks felt they 
had to seize early opportunities to keep their loan volume from declining, 
since it might be difficult later to restore their position. 
Governor Holland noted that the Council's written answer to the 
agenda topic regarding the appropriateness of present monetary policy 
called for continued restraint until inflation was brought under a greater 

4263 
11/2/73 
-7-
measure of control. He inquired whether the efforts of some banks 
to make additional loans militated against the recommended stance of 
monetary policy. President Dorrance replied that he did not believe 
that the Council was suggesting that aggressiveness for loans had 
changed to any significant degree; the members were merely referring 
to straws in the wind. 
C. Has the availability of residential mortgage 
credit changed in recent weeks? More generally, 
what is the current situation and the outlook 
with regard to the availability of funds to 
finance construction activity of various kinds? 
Although conditions differ in various areas, most members of 
the Council believe residential mortgage credit is more generally avail-
able today than it was six weeks ago. The inflow of funds into banks 
and thrift institutions has increased in recent weeks and mortgage rates 
have fallen in some Districts. 
Funds are available for construction lending where quality 
is good. While there has been some decline in commercial construction 
commitments, it appears to be more the result of high interest rates on 
long-term funds than the lack of availability. 
Usury laws in certain States continue to limit the availa-
bility of residential mortgage money. 
Mr. Bassett commented that both banks and savings and loan 
associations in Florida had experienced a net inflow of savings in 
September and October and were expanding their mortgage lending. Mortgage 
rates on residential construction had gone down from 9-1/4 to 8-3/4 per 
cent. There had also been some easing in the availability of funds in 
Birmingham. 
In other parts of the Sixth District, however, such as 
Atlanta, home mortgage loans were virtually unobtainable. 

4264 
11/2/73 
- 8 -
Mr. Fultz reported that in Ohio usury laws applied to banks 
but not to savings and loan associations. The latter were continuing 
to make mortgage loans, at rates from 9-1/2 to 9-3/4 per cent. The 
banks were limited to an 8 per cent maximum and the few mortgage loans 
being made were principally for good will or through block allocations. 
Mr. Storrs said that North Carolina also had an 8 per cent usury 
law on mortgage loans up to $50,000. A month ago his bank had announced 
that it would offer such loans. The program was extremely well received, 
and he believed that it had helped the banking image, but it had also 
resulted in complaints from competing thrift institutions. He noted that 
his bank had received substantial deposits from realtors in recent weeks. 
Mr. Rogers said that mortgage money for residences was still 
very tight in California, where there had been a large outflow of funds 
from savings and loans and mutual savings banks. An exception was 
found in the case of one large bank that was pursuing an aggressive 
mortgage loan program. 
In Washington and Oregon mortgage funds had 
been more readily available, but there had been relatively little 
demand for mortgage loans made at 9 per cent. However, rates now had 
dropped to 8-1/4 to 8-1/2 per cent, and it was expected that the volume 
of loans would increase. 
Mr. Bond commented that considerable interest had been generated 
when his bank very recently had started offering mortgage loans at 
8-3/4 per cent. 

11/2/73 
- 9 -
Mr. Wallis indicated that a recent change in the New York 
State usury ceiling from 8 to 8-1/2 per cent had resulted in an 
increased willingness to make commitments rather than a greater actual 
flow of mortgage money. However, 8-1/2 per cent loans were still not 
very attractive to lenders, given the current cost of funds. It was 
his impression that banks in the New York area had not been very 
aggressive in their efforts to market so-called "wild card" certificates. 
3. Regulatory matters. 
A. What are the Council's views with regard to the 
Board's proposals to regulate the use of NOW 
accounts by member banks in Massachusetts and 
New Hampshire? 
The Council would like to comment on three aspects of the 
Board's proposals: 
(1) Most members of the Council oppose, as a matter of 
principle, having a regulatory agency assume the market place 
function of fixing minimum balance, service charges, and numbers 
of transactions permitted. The Council therefore opposes both 
approaches to this type of regulation. 
(2) The Council recognizes the need to impose a reserve 
requirement on NOW accounts in Massachusetts and New Hampshire 
at a minimum level because reserves cannot be imposed on the 
thrift institutions operating in those States offering NOW 
accounts. However, the Council believes that in principle a 
NOW account should carry a reserve requirement between the 
requirements imposed on savings deposits and on demand deposits 
since a NOW account has the characteristics of both. 
(3) The Council strongly opposes opening direct access 
to the Federal Reserve payments system to institutions other 
than commercial banks. 

A
x
m 
11/2/73 
-10-
The Council would like to record its opposition to the 
enactment of legislation and the adoption of regulations which foster 
the fragmentation of the System's operations. 
Mr. English, who did not share the Council's view stated in 
the first paragraph of its written response, said that most members 
of the Council feared that detailed regulation of bank services might 
become a permanent part of the supervisory scheme. He would not 
welcome such a development either, but he felt strongly that the 
Massachusetts and New Hampshire situation was a special one in which 
it was both worth while and necessary for the regulators to intervene. 
It was not a situation in which various contenders were starting from 
the same point in a new kind of business; if that were true, it would 
be best for the market to set the terms. Instead, however, there was 
an unstable situation in which commercial banks in those two States, 
especially the smaller banks, had a large share of their deposits in 
the form of very active savings accounts and demand balances of indivi-
duals on which they were highly dependent for their liquidity and 
profits. Holders of these accounts would have a great incentive to 
switch to NOW accounts unless limitations were placed on the way the 
latter could be used. Another factor that complicated the situation 
was that many mutual savings banks would tend to have a competitive 
advantage over small commercial banks. The mutuals, which in many New 
England towns were larger than their bank competitors, had generally 

11/2/73 
- 1 1 -
larger and less active individual accounts. They would therefore be 
in an advantageous position to buy their way into the NOW account 
business. Because of this unbalanced competitive situation, it was 
important for the regulatory agencies to intervene in the pricing 
mechanism. 
A significant and long-term experiment on what amounted to 
the payment of interest on demand deposits was going on in Massachusetts 
and New Hampshire, Mr. English continued, and he would like to see a 
system encouraged in which both the rate of interest on the balance 
and the transaction charge were clearly and separately identified. 
Therefore, he would like to see the regulatory authorities set a rela-
tively high interest rate ceiling on NOW accounts, which should be 
uniform for all types of institutions offering such accounts. He 
suggested 5 per cent, but 4-1/2 per cent might also be acceptable. He 
believed that for at least an interim period some minimum charge should 
be required to be assessed for the services in NOW accounts. It would 
be helpful if the charge could be determined to cover processing costs, 
but if it could not, some amount should be picked, such as 10 or 15 
cents an item. The Board's published proposals contained some alter-
natives that seemed to him to involve unnecessary complications. 
Governor Mitchell noted that objections had been made to the 
establishment of a minimum charge on individual transactions and that the 
minimum balance approach appeared to create fewer problems. He added 

4268 
11/2/73 
-12-
that the relative activity of the account was a significant competitive 
element; thrift institutions apparently were thinking in terms of 6 or 
7 transactions a month, whereas banks would see a shift to NOW accounts 
from individual checking accounts in which 20 transactions a month 
were more typical. He noted that industry representatives had indi-
cated that individual checking accounts were a loss leader in any event. 
Mr. Storrs agreed that individual checking accounts represented 
high-cost funds and were often a loss leader the purpose of which was 
to attract depositors who might take advantage of other bank services. 
In North Carolina, banks generally required a minimum balance of $100 
for checking privileges for individuals, with no limit on transactions, 
and some banks offered free checking accounts without minimum balance 
requirements. This was evidence of competition effectively at work. 
He would dislike to see the Board, which had been moving away from 
prescribing interest rate ceilings, now begin to price bank services. 
Chairman Burns observed that the regulatory authorities were 
obliged to devise a regulation to implement the recent legislation 
regarding NOW accounts, and he inquired what the Council members would 
suggest for the framework of that regulation. 
Mr. Wallis advocated that a maximum rate of interest be 
specified but that it be kept low. He thought that Mr. English had 
painted the picture of the small banks' problem very well, but he 
cautioned that the regulatory authorities should not lose sight of 

42G9 
11/2/73 
-13-
the fact that NOW accounts were an experiment. That experiment should 
not be conducted in a mode that might not be suitable if the innovation 
should later be adopted for the whole country. Other comments indi-
cated that it was the Council's general view that a maximum rate of 
interest should be the only restriction on NOW accounts, and that such 
a rate should be uniform for all types of institutions offering such 
accounts. 
A member of the Board observed that if no limitation were 
placed on the number of transactions in NOW accounts, thrift institu-
tions would be free to offer checking accounts to the same extent as 
did commercial banks. He inquired whether the Council members would 
be in favor of that sort of freedom. Mr. Wallis commented that if a 
limitation was imposed, it might be contended at the end of the experi-
ment that NOW accounts could not be permitted in the rest of the country 
without a limit on the number of transactions because no one knew how 
they might be used in the absence of a limitation. Thus such a regu-
lation would be likely to become permanent for the entire country, 
and he did not believe that would be good in the long run. 
Governor Mitchell commented that he did not see any way of 
meeting the practical problems of meshing competition of banks with 
thrift institutions without imposing limitations such as contemplated 
in the Board's proposed regulation. He was sure that thrift institutions 

4270 
11/2/73 
-14-
would not be content to let the use of NOW accounts continue to be 
confined to two States; they would press for country-wide acceptance 
as soon as possible. It seemed to him that in order to promote compet-
itive equality, limitations were needed. Also, he did not think the 
problem would be confined to small banks. 
A member of the Council inquired about the arrangements that 
might be made in the interest of tax equity between banks and thrift 
insitutions. Responses indicated that there had not been a meeting of 
the minds on tax status. Some people contended that there was no great 
disparity on that ground, especially with the increasing use of tax 
shelters such as municipal tax-exempt securities. A member of the 
Council observed that in any event, the tax question was not within 
the province of the bank regulatory authorities and legislation had 
been proposed to deal with that question. 
The discussion then turned to the question of reserve require-
ments on NOW accounts and Mr. Storrs expressed the view that with the 
probable shifting of funds to this new class of deposits within a 
bank, the introduction of an additional category of reserve requirements 
could produce complications for monetary policy. Even though they were 
classified as time deposits for interest-paying purposes, presumably 
the funds in NOW accounts would still be considered part of the money 
supply. 

4271 
11/2/73 
-15-
Mr. Storrs said that although there was a highly desirable 
objective in the effort to impose reserve requirements on thrift insti-
tutions, he did not believe the route being used was a good one. Banks 
would have to live for a long time with what was being offered as a 
benefit in exchange for what they were giving up. The expansion of the 
payments system into regional check processing centers had permitted 
participation by nonmember banks. The present proposals went a step 
further by permitting participation by thrift institutions in the pay-
ments mechanism. He thought there was a lot more to membership in 
the Federal Reserve System than putting up 3 per cent reserves on savings 
deposits. 
Governor Mitchell said that although one might like to limit 
the payments mechanism to banks, it seemed certain that thrift insti-
tutions would exert pressure to be allowed to use the facilities. The 
issue was being forced even now in California, where thrift institutions 
wanted to participate in the payments mechanism not through member banks 
but through their own organization. 
It seemed probable that the only 
recourse left to the Federal Reserve was to try to set the conditions 
upon which they would participate. Further comments by Mr. Storrs 
indicated that he did not believe that the private banking system could 
operate the payments mechanism, and that he would not object to nonbank 
institutions participating through member banks. Another member of 
the Council suggested that a possible solution would be to make a 

/f 
) 
11/2/13 
-16-
per-item charge to all institutions for clearings, but to pay interest 
to member banks on their reserve balances. However, it was noted that 
it was not clear that there was authority under the law to pay interest 
on reserve accounts. An inquiry by Mr. Wallis regarding the proposal 
made several years ago that all insured banks be required to be members 
of the Federal Reserve System brought the response that that proposal 
was no longer being advanced. Instead, the Board was advocating 
uniform reserve requirements for all banks. 
B. What do Council members anticipate will be 
the impact of the new ceilings on so-called 
"wild card" certificates of deposit? 
The members of the Council regret the imposition of ceilings 
on any type of interest-bearing deposit including the so-called "wild 
card" certificates of deposit. However, the Council is pleased with 
the removal of the 5 per cent limitation. Such action will result in 
the increased use of this certificate until the ceiling again makes 
this instrument non-competitive. 
In the meantime, the Council is hope-
ful that the rate differential will be eliminated. 
President Dorrance emphasized the Council's awareness of the 
leadership that had been necessary for the removal of the 5 per cent 
limitation and of the extensive negotiations that had gone into setting 
the present interest rate ceilings. However, the limitations now placed 
on the four-year certificates could extinguish their usefulness in the 
future. Members of the Council were generally opposed to the idea of 
tying the interest rate ceilings on the four-year certificates to the 
Treasury six-month bill rate. It was also noted that such an approach 

4273 
11/2/73 
-17-
was likely to be viewed as contrary to the intent of the Congress 
in setting ceilings on time deposits in denominations of less than 
$100 ,000. However, Mr. Rogers indicated that a variable rate used 
by his bank had resulted in a considerable inflow of funds until the 
interest rate ceiling was set. He noted that the 7-1/4 per cent 
ceiling might entice some money from his bank's own depositors, and 
suggested that tying the ceiling rate to the bill rate might result 
in obtaining money from outside sources. 
4. Monetary policy. 
A. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit 
policy under current circumstances? 
The Council believes that monetary and credit policy should 
continue under restraint until inflation is brought under a greater measure 
of control. 
It is important not to react too strongly and too quickly 
to the expected slowing in business activity in the months immediately 
ahead. 
President Dorrance said that the Council considered present 
monetary policy to be about right for the moment. Mr. Wallis indicated 
that the overwhelming consensus in New York City was that the greater 
risk was that the Fed would ease too soon and too much rather than 
the reverse. 
(Pursuant to the Board's request earlier this year for the 
views of the Federal Advisory Council on the question of bank capital 
adequacy, the Council had submitted two memoranda dated October 12, 1973, 

.« o n 
4 
11/2/73 
-18-
one entitled "Answers to Questions Posed by Mr. Leavitt in His July 10, 
1973, Letter to Mr. Dorrance Concerning Bank Capital," and the other 
entitled "Examples of Completion of the Federal Advisory Council's 
Proposed Form for Analyzing Bank Capital." At today's meeting the 
Council commented on the findings of its study.) 
President Dorrance stated that the Council had welcomed the 
opportunity to work on the problem of capital adequacy and had put 
extensive effort into its study. The Council readily recognized 
that capital plays a role in the security of deposits, but also wished 
to emphasize that capital should be so structured as to preserve the 
possibility of making profits. Capital would never entirely offset 
losses through major fraud; application of the form the Council had 
devised to recent bank failures demonstrated that a high capital ratio 
could not completely supplant the need for other controls. 
Chairman Burns inquired whether there was in fact a problem 
of bank profitability. He understood that from 1966 to 1971 banks 
had fared very well in profitability in comparison with nonbank busi-
ness. He was not speaking of individual banks, but of the commercial 
banking system as a whole. 
President Dorrance replied that the Council members were 
concerned about the ability of banks to compete in equity capital 
markets, along with all other contenders for capital funds. Moreover, 
the margin of bank profitability might be further narrowed by the 

'lew fi> 
11/2/73 
-19-
severe regulatory limitations placed upon banks, such as reserve 
requirements, which would also make it more difficult for banks to 
attract capital funds. He understood that there were no more than 
15 banks with a price-earnings ratio of more than 15. Another member 
of the Council commented that bank stock frequently could not be sold 
at a sufficient price to avoid dilution of book value, which was 
unwelcome to shareholders. 
It was also mentioned that inflated money 
costs caused shrinking profit margins, so that a bank faced with a 
demand for more capital also faced a question whether it could make 
an adequate return on additional capital funds. 
In response to a question whether the Council was concerned 
with present or future profitability, Mr. Bond expressed the view that 
it was concerned with both. While bank profits had not been poor, 
neither had they been outstanding. With the present surge in bank 
expansion through ownership by holding companies, it seemed probable 
that banks would be required to raise capital at a faster rate than 
ever before, with increasing jeopardy to profitability. 
The Council also indicated that the problem of profitability 
was compounded if the Board ruled out the use of capital funds derived 
from the issuance of debt obligations. Members of the Board responded 
that no mechanical rule was followed; instead, individual situations 
were appraised. However, the Board did not regard debt capital as the 
equivalent of equity. 

427* 
U / 2 / 7 3 
-20-
Chairman Burns expressed the view that no member of the 
Board was satisfied with the way in which problems regarding debt 
capital had been treated. While there should be limitations, they 
should be reasonable, and the Board should inform the banking commu-
nity about the rules it followed. Work was in progress on that 
problem, and he hoped that within a few months it would be possible 
to provide the greater clarity that was needed. 
President Dorrance explained that the 5 per cent capital ratio 
that had emanated from the Council's study had not been intended to 
suggest that present bank capital could be cut in half. Rather, it 
was a suggestion that for perhaps 300 or 400 banks with superior 
management, that ratio might be adequate. Ensuing comments by members 
of the Board stressed that judgments in rating a bank's management 
were difficult, and the elements upon which they were based could change 
rapidly. 
Mr. Bond remarked that a basic principle underlying the 
Council's conclusions had been that all banks were subject to some 
kind of capital scrutiny by a regulator. There were areas in which 
two sets of capital rules could develop, such as with respect to banks 
owned by a holding company. In his view, the Comptroller of the 
Currency's attitude toward capital of national banks had been very 
workmanlike. He replied in the negative to an inquiry whether he 

11/2/73 
-21-
thought the Board should abdicate its responsibility for banks in a 
holding company system, but added that he thought the Board should 
give great weight to the Comptroller's view and overrule it only in 
serious circumstances. Comments by members of the Board indicated 
that that was in fact the course the Board followed. 
At the conclusion of this part of the discussion, Chairman 
Burns expressed the Board's appreciation for the thought and effort 
the Council had given to the problem of capital adequacy. 
the conclusion of service on the Council by several of its members, 
of which he was one. He was sure he spoke for all of those who would 
be leaving in saying that membership on the Council had been a rewarding 
experience that they had considered a privilege. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on January 31-February 1, 1974. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
President Dorrance commented that the end of 1973 would see 
