MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 27, 1973 

5028 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 27, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 1J 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Personnel matters. In a memorandum dated December 20, 1973, 
Governor Holland recommended promotion of Eleanor J. Stockwell and 
Edward C. Ettin, each from Assistant Adviser to Associate Adviser in 
the Division of Research and Statistics. At today's meeting, Governor 
Holland also recommended that Samuel B. Chase, Jr., be promoted from 
Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, to Adviser 
to the Board, Office of Managing Director for Research and Economic 
Policy. 
After discussion, the Board deferred action on the promotions 
Miss Stockwell and Mr. Ettin and approved the promotion of Mr. Chase, 
effective January 1, 1974. 
The following persons then joined the meeting: 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 

12/27/73 
-2-
Mr. Tuttle, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Winters National Corporation, Dayton, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of Winters National Life Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona, 
a new company that will engage in the underwriting, as reinsurer, of 
credit life and credit accident and health insurance in connection 
with extensions of credit by the applicant's lending subsidiary. The 
Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a 
copy of which is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mercantile 
ftankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to acquire shares of The 
Fidelity Bank, Frostburg, Maryland, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southeast 
banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of First 
Citizens Bank and Trust Company, Titusville, Florida, and authorized 

5030 
12/27/73 
-3-
issuance of an order, with changes in wording, reflecting this deci-
sion. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Northern 
States Bancorporation, Inc., Detroit, Michigan, to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to Union National Bank and Trust Company of 
Marquette, Marquette, Michigan. In addition, the Board unanimously 
approved the concurrent application of Twin Gates Corporation, Wilming-
ton, Delaware, to obtain indirect control of Union National Bank and 
Trust Company through its partial ownership of Northern States. The 
Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting these decisions, a 
copy of which is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Victoria 
Bankshares, Inc., Victoria, Texas, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of the successors by merger to the 
following banks located in Texas: (1) Victoria Bank and Trust Company, 
Victoria; (2) Farmers State Bank & Trust Co., Cuero; (3) The First 
National Bank of Nordheim, Nordheim; (4) Home State Bank, Westhoff; 
(5) Community State Bank, Runge; and (6) Smiley State Bank, Smiley. 
In a related action, the Board unanimously approved the application 
°f New Victoria Bank and Trust Company, Victoria, Texas, to merge 
with Victoria Bank and Trust Company. The Board authorized issuance 

5031 
12/27/73 
-4-
of orders reflecting these decisions, copies of which are attached 
under Item No. 5. The Board also unanimously approved the application 
of New Victoria Bank and Trust Company for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of BankAmerica 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, to acquire shares of BA 
Insurance Company, Inc., San Francisco, a company to be organized to 
engage in the underwriting and reinsuring of credit life and credit 
accident and health insurance in connection with extensions of credit 
by the applicant's affiliates. The Board authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision, a copy of which is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of NCNB 
Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina, for permission to continue to 
engage in certain insurance activities through its wholly-owned 
subsidiary, C. Douglas Wilson & Co., Greenville, South Carolina. The 
Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy 
°f which is attached as Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
National City Corporation, New York, New York, for permission to 
continue to hold shares of Citicorp Venture Capital, Limited, New York, 

5032 
12/27/73 
-5-
New York, after the latter acquires additional shares of Ramada Europe, 
Inc., a Delaware corporation. A copy of the letter sent to the appli-
cant is attached as Item No. 9. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Manufacturers 
Hanover Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Manufac-
turers Hanover Leasing Canada Limited, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. A 
copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 10. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bamerical 
International Financial Corporation, San Francisco, California, to 
acquire shares of BankAmerica Finance Limited, which is to be formed 
in Reading, England. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 11. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chemical 
International Finance, Ltd., New York, New York, to acquire shares of 
C.N.Y. Finanz A.G., Zurich, Switzerland. A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant is attached as Item No. 12. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Fidelity 
Bank, Rosemont, Pennsylvania, to acquire shares of Banque de la 
Mediterranee, Beirut, Lebanon. A copy of the letter sent to the appli-
cant is attached as Item No. 13. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bankers 
International Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of 

5033 
12/27/73 
-6-
three companies to be established in Canada: BT Canada, Ltd., Toronto, 
Ontario; BT Financial Services, Ltd., Montreal, Quebec; and BT Securi-
ties, Ltd., also of Montreal. A copy of the letter sent to the appli-
cant is attached as Item No. 14. 
Pursuant to recommendations by the Division of Personnel in 
memoranda of December 7, 1973, the Board unanimously approved two 
Proposals relating to the Board Plan of the Federal Reserve Retirement 
System. The first was an amendment to the Board Plan incorporating 
into the administration of the Plan the provisions of Public Law 93-136 
°f October 24, 1973, liberalizing the eligibility requirements for 
cost-of-living annuity increases; the second authorized a cost-of-
living increase for Board Plan retirees and their beneficiaries in 
the amount of 5.5 per cent, effective January 1, 1974. It was understood 
that the cost of these benefits would be covered by a charge against 
surplus reserves allocable to the Board Plan. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Executive Secretary of the Retirement Plan is attached as 
Item No. 15. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Fidelity 
Corporation of Pennsylvania, Rosemont, Pennsylvania, to engage de novo 
lri Florida, through its subsidiary Master Life Insurance Company, 
Phoenix, Arizona, in the underwriting, as reinsurer, of credit life 
and credit accident and health insurance. The Board authorized 

5034 
12/27/73 
-7-
issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of which is 
attached as Item No. 16. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
United Penn Corporation. At its meeting on December 19, 1973, 
the Board, pending receipt of further information, deferred action 
on the application of United Penn Corporation, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsyl-
vania, to acquire shares of Valley Consumer Discount Company, Exeter, 
Pennsylvania. With a memorandum of December 26, 1973, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation submitted data on interest rates charged 
bY Valley Consumer Discount Company, and at today's meeting the staff 
reaffirmed its recommendation of approval of the application. 
After a discussion in which members of the Board expressed the 
view that additional information on interest rates, the market area, 
and Valley's loan portfolio was required, the Board deferred action on 
this application. 
First City Bancorporation of Texas. In memoranda of December 4, 
l973, the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation recommended approval of the applications of First 
City 
Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares 
o f the successors by merger to The First National Bank of San Angelo, 
san Angelo, Texas, and to The First National Bank of Paris, Paris, Texas. 

5035 
12/27/73 
-8-
In a memorandum of December 26, 1973, the Division of Research and 
Statistics and the Legal Division recommended an addition to the 
proposed order. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the appli-
cations and authorized issuance of an order, with changes in wording, 
reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is attached under 
Item No. 17• along with a copy of Governor Daane's concurring statement. 
First Financial Corporation. In a memorandum of December 11, 
1973, the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation recommended (1) approval of the application 
°f First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Gadsden State Bank, Chattahoochee, Florida, and (2) denial of the 
application of First Financial to acquire shares of Citizens Bank and 
Trust Company, Quincy, Florida. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion concerning Gadsden State Bank and unanimously denied the appli-
cation regarding Citizens Bank. The Board authorized issuance of 
orders reflecting these decisions, copies of which are attached as 
Items 18 and 19. 
Southwest Florida Banks, In a memorandum of November 7, 1973, 
the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended approval of the applications of Southwest 

51)36 
12/27/73 
-9-
Florida Banks, Inc., Fort Myers, Florida, to acquire shares of two 
proposed new banks, North First Bank, North Fort Myers, Florida, and 
South First Bank, Fort Myers, Florida. In memoranda of October 29, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation also recommended 
approval of both banks' applications for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the applica-
tions of Southwest Florida Banks and authorized issuance of an order, 
with changes in wording, reflecting these decisions. A copy is attached 
a s Item No. 20. The Board also unanimously approved the applications 
°f North First Bank and South First Bank for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. Copies of the letters sent to the banks are attached 
as Items 21 and 22. 
BHCo, Inc. In a memorandum of December 11, 1973, the Division 
Research and Statistics and the Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion recommended denial of the application of BHCo, Inc., Hardin, 
Montana, to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
shares of Big Horn County State Bank, also of Hardin. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously denied the application 
ar*d authorized issuance of an order, with changes in wording, in a 
form satisfactory to Governor Mitchell. 
(It subsequently developed 

12/27/73 
-10-
th at Governor Mitchell requested that a revised order be prepared 
for the Board's consideration at a later date.) 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff attend-
ance and the following persons joined the meeting: 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and Economic 
Policy and Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
NOW accounts. In a memorandum of December 26, 1973, Mr. Melnicoff 
recommended that the Board defer substantive consideration of a petition 
submitted by the Massachusetts Bankers Association concerning regulation 
of accounts subject to negotiable orders of withdrawal (NOW accounts) 
in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. 
After discussion, it was agreed that in view of the limited 
amount of time before the regulations were scheduled to go into effect 
and the experimental nature of NOW accounts as presently constituted, 
the Board would maintain its previously announced program for regulat-
ing and monitoring NOW accounts. It was understood that the Massachu-
setts Bankers Association would be advised that, when sufficient data 
°n the operations and activity of NOW accounts were available, the 
Board would be in a position to consider the petition further. A 
c°Py of the letter sent to the petitioner is attached as Item No. 23. 
Mr. Hackley, Consultant to the Board, joined the meeting at 
this point. 

5038 
12/27/73 
-11-
Reserve requirement legislation. At its meeting on December 17, 
1973, the Board held a preliminary discussion on a legislative proposal 
for uniform reserve requirements. With a memorandum of December 11, 
1973, Mr. Melnicoff submitted a draft of a bill that would extend 
reserve requirements to certain nonmember institutions and requested 
guidance from the Board on issues pertaining to proposed uniform 
reserve requirements. 
In today's discussion, members of the Board explored further 
the general issues involved in the subject of uniform reserve require-
ments and suggested specific changes in the draft bill. In light of 
the views expressed, it was understood that the staff would prepare 
a revised draft bill and a proposed letter of transmittal to Congress. 
Governors Daane and Brimmer withdrew during the course of the 
Preceding discussion. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
T. 
« 
— 
Assistant Secretary 

5039 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
12/27/73 
WINTERS NATIONAL CORPORATION 
°rder Approving Acquisition of Winters National Life Insurance Company 
Winters National Corporation, Dayton, Ohio, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
o f the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of 
^inters National Life Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona ("Company"), 
a company that will engage de novo in the activity of underwriting, as 
^insurer, credit life and credit accident and health insurance in 
connection with extensions of credit by Applicant's lending subsidiary. 
such activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related 
t o banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(10)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
b e en duly published (38 Federal Register 30477). The time, for filing 
comments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls one bank, Winters National Bank and Trust 
Co 
mPany, Dayton, Ohio, with total deposits of approximately $515 million, 
^Presenting 2 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in Ohio, 
banking data are as of June 30, 1973.) Company will be formed as 
Arizona insurance corporation with initial capital of $155,000. 
Company will be qualified to underwrite insurance directly only in 
A n 
life 
2°na, its activities will be limited to acting as reinsurer of credit 
and credit accident and health insurance policies offered in connection 

-2-
. 5040 
with extensions of credit by Applicant's lending subsidiary. Such 
insurance will be directly underwritten by an insurer or insurers 
qualified to underwrite in Ohio where Applicant's subsidiary engages in 
business and will thereafter be assigned or ceded to Company under a 
reinsurance agreement. 
Credit life and credit accident and health insurance is 
generally made available by banks and other lenders and is designed 
to assure repayment of a loan in the event of death or disability of 
the borrower. In connection with its addition of credit life under-
rating to the list of permissible activities for bank holding companies, 
tlle Board stated: 
To assure that engaging in the underwriting of credit 
life and credit accident and health insurance can 
reasonably be expected to be in the public interest, 
the Board will only approve applications in which an 
applicant demonstrates that approval will benefit 
the consumer or result in other public benefits. 
Normally such a showing would be made by a projected 
reduction in rates or increase in policy benefits due 
to bank holding company performance of this service. 
Applicant has applied for permission to engage in the reinsurance 
the following types of insurance coverage to be offered in the State 
o f Ohio: individual and joint level term credit life insurance on 
payment loans;1/ individual and joint reducing term credit life 
insurance on instalment loans;2/ and individual decreasing term credit 
accident and health insurance. 
p^he~Board does not regard the sale of level term credit life insurance 
n connection with instalment lending as directly related to an extension 
credit under section 225.4(a)(9)(ii) of Regulation Y; however, the Eoard 
found that such insurance in connection with single payment loans is 
yectly related to an extension of credit. 
Applicant proposes to underwrite the aforementioned joint credit life 
c°verage 
for co-makers or co-signers on indebtedness .reaul.t±ng-frniii.tho 
of credit. 

5041 
-3-
Applicant has stated that its proposed reinsurance subsidiary 
* 
(Company) and the direct underwriter which issues the credit life and 
credit accident and health insurance policies made available by Appli-
cant's lending subsidiary will reduce the rates charged for all types 
o f credit life insurance by 4 per cent from the prevailing rates. In 
Edition, Applicant will reduce the rate charged for individual decreasing 
Credit accident and health insurance by 5 per cent. The Board finds that 
th 
e reduced cost of such insurance coverage is procompetitive and is in 
th 
e Public interest. The Board concludes that such public benefits out-
weigh any possible adverse effects of approval of the application. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in Vi 
the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
e r e s t factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
Vorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
termination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
S u bsid i a r i e s as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
the 
Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
e r s issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
The transaction shall be made not later than three months after 
effective {jate o f t h i s order, unless such period is extended for 

_ 5042 
-4-
good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors^/ effective December 27, 1973 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
rironier, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Gov ernors Sheehan. and Bucher. 

5013 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
12/27/73 
MERCANTILE BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mercantile Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, a bank 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C, 
(3)) to acquire 100 per cent, but not less than 80 per cent, of the 
Vol:ing shares of The Fidelity Bank, Frostburg, Maryland ("Bank"), a non-
**mber State bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 
3(b) of the Act and the time for filing comments and views has expired. 
Th 
Board has considered the application in light of the factors set forth 
lfl § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
As of June 30, 1973, Applicant controlled eight banks with 
a§8fegatc deposits of $481.6 million, representing 6.7 per cent of the total 
ConiInGrcial deposits in the State. It ranks as the sixth largest banking 
>anUng subsidiaries, one of which is engaged in mortgage financing and 
8ervicing and the other in commercial, specialized consumer and second mortgage 
•Zation in Maryland and controls, in addition to the eight banks, two non-
bt 
len<Ung, factoring, lease financing and loan servicing. Subsequent to 
3 0 
1973, Applicant received Board approval to acquire a de novo bank. 
Ac 
quisition of Bank ($12.3 million in deposits) would increase Applicant's 

. 5044 
- 2 -
share of Statewide deposits by only 0.2 per cent and its ranking in the 
State would remain unchanged. 
The approximate service area of Bank is Allegany County and 
the extreme eastern section of Garrett County, Maryland. Bank operates 
it:s single office in Frostburg, Maryland, and, with 7.6 per cent of total 
dePosits as of June 30, 1972, is the fifth largest of eight banking organi-
2ations competing in this area. Applicant's closest office to Bank is 
located in Winfield, Maryland, approximately 130 miles east of Bank. It 
aPpears that there is no significant existing competition between Bank and 
any of Applicant's banking offices and unlikely that such competition would 
j 
eyelop i n the future in view of the distances separating Bank from Appli-
Cant's banking offices. The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
^ i s i t i o n would not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant 
area. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, 
ts banks and bank-related subsidiaries, and Bank are regarded as generally 
atisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. While there 
is nn evidence in the record that the banking needs of the area are not 
adequately served, affiliation with Applicant would allow Bank to make 
aUable a wider range of services to customers. Considerations relating 
to th 
n e convenience and needs of the area to be served lend slight weight 
°V7ard approval of this application. It is the Board's judgment that the 
PtQ 
Posed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
be approved. 

5045 
- 3 -
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the* 
e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (b) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
e r or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective December 28, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
HiiJr i n 8 f° r t h l S a c t i o n : 
V l c e Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
V h J ^ 
a n d H o l l a n d - 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
uan and Bucher. 

5046 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No0 3 
12/27/73 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
^42(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of First 
Citizens Bank and Trust Company ("Bank"), Titusville, Florida. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
A W I 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
ll8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company in Florida, controls 
27 h 
-
°anks with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.7 billion, 
repre-
Senting 8.40 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
Ac 
°.12 
^isition of Bank would increase Applicant's share of State deposits by 
Percentage points to a total of 8.52 per cent and Applicant's ranking among 
banking organizations in the State would remain unchanged. Accordingly, 
^isition of Bank will not significantly affect statewide concentration of 
anking r e s o u r c e s i n Florida. 
Bank ($25.3 million in deposits) is the largest of three commercial 
located in the North Brevard County banking market (approximated 
i ^ A U banking data are as of June 30, 1973, and reflect bank holding 
^Pany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through December 15 

-2-
5047 
by the City of Titusville and the northern part of Brevard County) and 
c°ntrols approximately 43 per cent of the deposits in commercial banks 
I 
the market. The second and third largest banks in the market control 
^proximately 38 per cent and 19 per cent of market deposits, respectively. 
Bank's affiliation with Applicant may improve competition within the market 
bV introducing the resources of another bank holding company to compete with 
the market's two other banks which are already affiliated with the fourth 
fifth largest bank holding companies in the State, without placing 
Applicant in a position of dominance in the market. Applicant's banking 
subsidiary closest to Bank is located 45 miles away in Orlando. It appears 
tbat no meaningful competition exists between Bank and any of Applicant's 
8ubsidiary banks. Further, due to the distance between Applicant's Orlando 
Subsidiary and Bank, it is unlikely that future competition will develop 
between them. Applicant does have the resources to enter the market de 
The market, which abuts the Kennedy Space Center, is economically 
ePendent upon NASA programs and has experienced a slowdown in economic 
activity in recent years. As a result, the market is relatively un-
at*tractive for de novo entry by Applicant. The Board concludes that 
Cotlsummation of the proposal would have no adverse competitive effects in 
anV relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant and Applicant's present subsidiary banks are regarded as 
8atisfactory, particularly in view of Applicant's commitments to inject 
ecluity capital into certain of its subsidiary banks and Bank. Thus, 
C°nsiderations relating the banking factors are consistent with approval 
^ls application. 

5048 
-3-
Although there is no evidence in the record to indicate that 
banking needs of the residents of the Titusville area are not currently 
QQ-L _ 
n8 met, Applicant proposes to expand the range of services presently 
f£ered by Bank by increasing the availability of mortgage funds and venture 
aPital, expanding trust services, and enlarging present parking facilities, 
before, considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
unity to be served lend weight to approval of the application. 
n . 
l s the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
as°ns summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
or v 
> later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
to 
e s s such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 27, 1973 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
It v 
Btj. oting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
s i w e r » and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
,an and Bucher. 

5049 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No* 4 
12/27/73 
NORTHERN STATES BANCORPORATION, INC. 
TWIN GATES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Northern States Bancorporation, Inc., Detroit, Michigan ("Northern 
States"), a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire directly 100 per cent of the vot-
in8 shares of the successor by merger to Union National Bank and Trust 
Company of Marquette, Marquette, Michigan ("Bank"). Twin Gates Corpora-
tion, Wilmington, Delaware ("Twin Gates"), a bank holding company, has 
filed a concurrent application for indirect control of Bank because of 
lts present ownership of 14.2 per cent of the outstanding voting shares 
ot" Northern States. The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no 
sl8nificance e x c ept as a means to facilitate the acquisition of all 
o f the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
shares of the successor organization is treated herein as the pro-
v e d acquisition of shares of Bank. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for inter-
ested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
1 § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
xPired, and the applications and all comments received have been 
c°nsidered in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(l2 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

-2-
5050 
Northern States controls two banks with aggregate deposits of 
$719 million, representing 2.8 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
banks in Michigan, and is the sixth largest banking organization in the 
State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, adjusted to re-
flect holding company acquisitions and formations approved through Novem-
be* 30, 1973.) The acquisition of Bank ($36 million deposits) would 
increase Northern States' share of State deposits by one-tenth of one 
Percentage point, and its rank among State banking organizations would 
n°t change. 
Twin Gates, in addition to its ownership of 14*2 per cent 
o f the outstanding shares of Northern States, owns 20 per cent of the 
°utstanding shares of National Bank of Rochester, Rochester, Michigan 
("Rochester Bank"), which has deposits of $15 million. Through its 
pr°fit sharing trust for benefit of the employees of its lead bank, 
Clty National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan ($579 million deposits). 
^°rthern States aloo controls 13.2 per cent of the outstanding shares of 
Chester Bank. 
Bank is the second largest of six banks operating in the 
^arquette County banking market, which includes the towns of Gwinn, 
*8l*Peraing, Negaunee, and Marquette. Bank holds 22.5 per cent of the 
total deposits in the market. The largest bank in the market, in 
6tms of deposits, holds 35 per cent of market deposits and is the 
Ifja J , 
bank in a newly formed holding company, which is comprised of three 
bflj-i 
8 serving the market, which hold in the aggregate approximately 

5051 
-3-
57 per cent of total market deposits. The closest office of an existing 
or proposed subsidiary bank of Northern States and Twin Gates is located 
aPproxiraately 263 miles from one of Bank's offices. Thus, no significant 
Present competition exists between Bank and Twin Gates' banking interests 
°r Northern States' subsidiary banks. Moreover, in view of the distances 
involved and the restrictions placed on branching by Michigan law, it 
is unlikely that any meaningful competition would develop between them 
in the future. Although Northern States possesses the resources to 
enter the Marquette banking market <3e novo, the growth pattern of the 
area and the present population to banking office ratio do not appear 
tc> support such entry at this time. On the basis of the record, it 
Appears that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not ad-
Versely affect competition in any relevant area and would not have an 
Averse effect on any competing bank. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Northern 
States and Twin Gates are generally satisfactory and their prospects 
appear favorable. Northern States proposes to provide Bank with mana-
&erial and technical assistance and to augment Bank's capital. It 
aPpears that consummation of the proposal would strengthen Bank's 
financial condition and enhance its prospects. Considerations relat-
e s to banking factors, therefore, lend weight toward approval of the 
aPPlica tion. Improvement in Bank s operations proposed by Northern 
St 
ates include a realignment of the loan portfolio, enlargement of 

5052 
-4-
the trust department, assistance with Bank's international accounts, and 
assistance in recruiting qualified personnel. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served appear 
insistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
fche applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications by Northern 
States and Twin Gates to acquire Bank are approved for the reasons sum-
m aUzed above. The transaction shall not be made (a) before the thir-
tieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
serve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 28, 1973. 
(Signed) 
Theodore E. Allison 
Re 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secfcsrtary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
B u m l ! t i n 8
J
f ° r t h i S a c t i o n : 
V i c e Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Gov!" r a n d
u
I I o U a n d - 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
vernors Sheehan and Bucher. 

_ 5053 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
12/27/73 
VICTORIA BANKSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Victoria Banlcshares, Inc., Victoria, Texas, has applied for 
tv> 
e Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
ac^isition of 100 pe* cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
Shares) of the successors by merger to the following six banks, all located 
in Texas: 
(1) Victoria Bank and Trust Company, Victoria ("Victoria Bank"); 
Farmers State Bank & Trust Co., Cuero ("Cuero Bank"); (3) The First 
ational Bank of Nordheim, Nordheim ("Nordheim Bank"); (4) Home State Bank, 
esthoff ("Westhoff Bank"); (5) Community State Bank, Runge ("Runge Bank"); 
nd (6) Smiley State Bank, Smiley ("Smiley Bank"). The banks into which 
V*et 
0ria Bank, Cuero Bank, Nordheim Bank, Westhoff Bank, Runge Bank, and 
^lle 
e y B a n k ("Subject Banks") are to be merged have no significance except 
a n s to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of subject 
S» Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
8ani2ations is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
Of Subject banks. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
PetSo 
n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) °f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
*n<i n 
^ 
has been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
ll8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

5054 
-2-
Applicant, a nonoperating corporation with no subsidiaries, 
Was organized for the purpose of becoming a multibank holding company. 
banks to be acquired are located in four conterminous counties in 
S°uth Central Texas and have been affiliated for several years through common 
0wnership and interlocking management. Upon consummation of the proposal, 
Applicant would control six banks with aggregate deposits of approximately 
9 million, representing slightly less than .4 per cent of the total deposits 
ill 
commercial banks in the State, and would become the thirtieth largest 
banking organization in Texas. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1973 
reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
trough November 30, 1973.) 
Victoria Bank (deposits of about $113 million), the largest of 
Appi. 
J-cant s proposed subsidiary banks, is the largest of four banks in the 
Vict °ria County banking market and controls over 45 per cent of the total 
^stcial bank deposits in that market. The second and third largest banks 
control, respectively, 32 per cent and 20 per cent of the deposits in 
Market. 
Cuero Bank (deposits of about $9 million), Nordheim Bank (deposits 
about $1 million), and Westhoff Bank (deposits of $1 million) are located 
in tK 
le DeWitt County banking market, holding in the aggregate almost 18 per 
total market deposits and rank fifth, seventh, and eighth, respectively, 
the eight banks in the market. As a result of acquisition of the 
b^nks in the DeWitt County market, Applicant would become the second 

so: 
-3-
^tgest banking organization in that market. While all the banks are located 
in the same market, each serves a separate community. Furthermore, 
in 
"view of the history of the common ownership of the banks, it appears 
that no significant existing competition would be eliminated as a result of 
t{le consummation of the proposal. 
Runge Bank (deposits of about $3 million) is the third largest of 
fo 
Ur banks in the Karnes County banking market and holds about 11 per 
Cent of the total commercial bank deposits therein. The banks ranked 
s t and second in deposit size in the market each control approximately 
40 Pet cent of the deposits in the market. 
Smiley Bank (deposits of about $2 million) Is the smallest of four 
banko • 
in the Gonzales County banking market and holds less than 5 per cent 
of t °tal commercial deposits in that market. 
On the basis of the record, there appears to be no significant 
mating 
competition between any of the six proposed subsidiary banks 
^atily because of the common control of the banks, the relatively small 
U l the banks, and the distances separating the banks involved. Further-
f 
* £or the same reasons, it appears unlikely that any substantial amount 
competition 
would develop in the future between any of the banks. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant 
^ ito 
ts proposed subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactory, future 
pects for the group appear favorable, particularly in view of Applicant's 
C0Qlrtlttm 
ent to inject additional equity capital into the Cuero Bank. Accord-
» cne Board regards the banking factors as being consistent with 

5056 
-4-
aPProval of the application. 
In regard to convenience and needs factors, affiliation with 
Applicant should enable each of the banks involved to become a more effective 
0rtlPetitor in its respective banking market in that each bank would have 
dditional lending capabilities to compete for commercial loans. In addition, 
aPpears that all of the proposed subsidiary banks, except for Victoria 
> nave not been meaningful competitors for time deposits. Applicant 
that it will encourage its proposed subsidiary banks to expand their 
0 8 i n t h i s a r e a and this action should benefit local customers of the 
-t 
involved. Applicant will also assist in the remodeling and in the 
Auction of banking facilities for its subsidiary banks as needed. 
orations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be q served, therefore, lend some weight toward approval of the appli-
Cation • it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would 
^ in 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
^ 
^sons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or 
(b) lat 
e r than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
eriod is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 

5057 
-5-
Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
dimmer, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
aheehan and Bucher. 

5058 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NEW VICTORIA BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
New Victoria Bank and Trust Company, Victoria, Texas, a proposed 
State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied for the Board's 
aPProval pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) of the merger 
0f that bank with Victoria Bank and Trust Company, Victoria, Texas, under 
th 
e name of Victoria Bank and Trust Company. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in form 
^Proved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has requested 
reP°rts on competitive factors from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
of t. 
Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 
BQ 
a r d has considered the application in light of the factors set forth 
in ^ e Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
teaSon 
ns summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating to the 
nation of Victoria Bankshares, Inc. to become a bank holding company, 
PtOVjH i 
ed that said merger shall not be made (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
V following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
G of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
Bo 
ar<l, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated 
aUth<*ity. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
f° r t h i s a c t l o n : 
V l c e Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Sfceeh/' a n d Hollan<l. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
n and Bucher. 

jlUV'AJVi v.v'vM * -
•OX 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
5059 
Item No. 6 
12/27/73 
A D D H E S 3 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
O D A R O 
December 27, 1973 
Board of Directors 
New Victoria Bank and Trust Company 
Victoria, Texas 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of New Victoria Bank and Trust Company, 
Victoria, Texas for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors cf the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the. general character of 
•its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that New Victoria Bank and Trust Company will not conduct a banking 
business witli the public prior to its merger with Victoria Bank and 
i'rust Company, Victoria, Texas. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation n, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

5060 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be 
determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's status 
as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained 
in this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
board of directors after the bank has appropriate State authoriza-
tion to commence business. A certified copy of such resolution 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the 
bank applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

50G1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
12/27/73 
BANKAMERICA CORPORATION 
Order Approving de novo Acquisition of BA Insurance Company, Inc. 
BankAmerica Corporation, San Francisco, California, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
QPPlied for the Board's approval,under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
5 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
shares of BA Insurance Company, Inc., San Francisco, California ("Company"), 
a company to be organized de novo to engage in the activities of under-
siting and reinsuring credit life and credit accident and health insur-
atlCe w h i c h i s directly related to extensions of credit on installment 
ioans by Applicant's affiliates, primarily Bank of America National Trust 
aild Savings Association, San Francisco, California ("Bank"). The Board 
^ n d e d § 225.4 of Regulation Y effective December 11, 1972, to add the 
activity of "acting as underwriter for credit life insurance and credit 
a°cident and health insurance which is directly related to extensions of 
re<lit by the bank holding company system" to the list pf activities the 
Boa%*r1 L 
has determined to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(10)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Petsons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
auiy published (38 Federal Register 14887). The time for filing 
^ n t s and views has expired and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, a one-bank holding company, controls the largest 
k^nk 4 
1/ 
n the country, Bank, with aggregate deposits of $23.4 billion,"" 
Excludes foreign deposits of $12 billion. 

50 (i2 
-2-
representing 36.6 per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in 
2/ 
California. 
Applicant currently has nonbanking subsidiaries engaged 
Principally in computer services, software and leasing activities, 
investment advisory services, issuance and sale of travelers checks, 
mortgage banking, and consumer financing. 
It is anticipated that Company will be organized with capital 
at least $1 million and that its initial activities will be limited 
t o acting as reinsurer of credit life and disability (accident and health) 
insurance made available in connection with extensions of credit by 
Applicant and its subsidiaries. Credit life and disability insurance 
i s generally made available by banks and other lenders and such insurance 
i s designed to assure repayment of a loan in the event of death or dis-
a bUity of the borrower. 
In connection with its addition of credit life underwriting 
the list of permissible activities for bank holding companies, the 
^ r d stated: 
"To assure that engaging in the underwriting of credit life and 
credit accident and health insurance can reasonably be expected 
to be in the public interest, the Board will only approve applica-
tions in which an applicant demonstrates that approval will benefit 
the consumer or result in other public benefits. Normally such a 
showing would be made by a projected reduction in rates or increase 
ln policy benefits due to bank holding company performance of this 
service." 
Bank presently makes available credit life and disability insur-
ance a«. 
t a rate of $1.00 per $100 of initial indebtedness with a 50 cent 
^0QlPaii ^ariking d a t a a r e a s o f December 31, 1972, and reflect holding 
y formations and acquisitions as of October 31, 1973. 

50C3 
-3-
rate for the credit life insurance and 50 cents for disability insur-
ance. Applicant states, and it appears that under the rules of the 
California Department of Insurance, Bank's loss experience with dis-
ability insurance is such that an increase in the rate charged for 
disability insurance would be permissible. Applicant does not purport 
to seek such an increase. In addition, Applicant proposes to provide 
improved benefits to the consumer by eliminating or modifying certain 
exclusionary clauses in the policies. Applicant also proposes to offer 
joint credit life insurance on an optional basis at a rate of 33 cents 
Per $100 of initial indebtedness in those instances where there are co-
ckers or co-signers of the note issued in connection with the extension 
o f credit." 
Although in prior applications to engage in underwriting credit 
Xife and disability insurance applicants have generally proposed to lower 
their rates, such applications did not involve situations where applicants 
demonstrated that their loss experience would have justified a rate in-
Crease. In this instance the Board believes that approval of the applica-
tion would assist Applicant in continuing to make available credit insur-
a n ce at rates below those which would be permitted by State law and would 
ill 
Urease policy benefits, and is therefore in the public interest. The 
BQ °ard concludes that such benefits outweigh any possible adverse effects 
of 
it/ 
approval of this application. 
c r e d i t l i f e insurance has been found by the Board to be directly 
^tali 
t 0 a n e x t e n s i o n o f credit. 
(See application of Irwin Union Cor-
Pam, 
C o l u T n b u s> Indiana, to acquire Irwin Union Credit Insurance Com-
V 
-J h o e n i x > Arizona; 33 Federal Register 32009.) 
inati 
B ° a r d d e t e r n , i n a t i o n herein is limited to credit life and disability 
trance offered for sale in California. 

-4-
5064 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(3) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
determination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
°f Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
° r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its sub-
sidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
°rders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
The transaction shall be made not later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
Canse by the Board of Governors or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
^ancisco, 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective December 27, 1973 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
B t ^ ^ f n r n t h l ; 
° n : 
C h a i r m a n Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
GoverT a nf/ I o l l a n d- 
A b s e"t and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
ernors Sheehan and Bucher. 

_ 5065 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 
39 
12/27/73 
NCNB CORPORATION 
Order Approving Continuation of Certain Insurance Sales Activities 
NCNB Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
°f the Board's Regulation Y, to continue to engage, indirectly through 
c- Douglas Wilson & Co. ("Wilson"), Greenville, South Carolina, in the 
Sale, as agent, of credit life and credit health and accident insurance 
to mortgagers of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Wilson, which primarily 
etlSa2es in mortgage banking activities. Such insurance sales activities 
Have been determined by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 
225.4(a)(9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
i 
6 e n duly published (38 Federal Register 23363). The time for filing 
c°mment8 and views has expired, and none has been received. 
1/ 
On August 1, 1972, the Board approved 
Applicant's application 
Squire Wilson. That application indicated that Wilson's activities were 
^mited to mortgage banking and described an item entitled "Insurance 
Conunissions" o n Wilson's Consolidated Statement of Earnings as "servicing 
fee 
8 received by [Wilson] in connection with its collection, in conjunction 
vith mortgage payments, of premiums on life, accident, and health policies". 
Urthermore it was expressly stated in the application that "[Wilson] does 
Hot 
Perform a sales role in connection with insurance involved." Accordingly, 
^ ^ l e d e r a l Reserve^ulletin 844 (1972). 

5066 
-2-
neither published notice of teceipt of the application, nor the Board's 
Order of August 1, 1972, contained any reference to insurance sales activities 
as the Board only considered the mortgage banking activities of Wilson. 
However, the Order expressly subjected the Board's determination to the con-
ditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y which provides, inter 
.alia, "the activities involved shall not be altered in any significant 
respect from those considered by the Board in making the determination". 
On August 16, 1972, Applicant acquired shares of Wilson, which, 
b°th prior and subsequent to that date, was a party to agency agreements with 
t w o different group credit underwriters, under which it sold, and received 
commission income for the sale of, credit life and credit health and accident 
insurance. On April 16, 1973, Applicant filed the instant application and, 
shortly thereafter, ceased the insurance sales activities of Wilson. 
The Board has considered both whether Applicant has "knowingly 
Qnd willfully" made a false statement to the Board within the meaning of 
Section 1001 of Title 18 of the United States Code and whether Applicant 
"willfully" violated the Bank Holding Company Act and Regulation Y, 
W i t M n the meaning of section 8 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1847). In doing so, 
th 
6 Board has considered Applicant's asserted reliance on disclaimers made 
by officers of Wilson at the time of the Wilson application to the effect 
th 
a t Wilson's insurance activities did not constitute "acting as insurance 
a 
2/ 
ent or broker". 
That reliance may have been misplaced, particularly 
. 
• : • 
• 
i8 " a t t h e 8 a l e o f credit-related insurance coverage under a group policy 
beGTi Uteml);Lat:ed within the pnrase "acting as insurance agent or broker" has 
/5e^°Snized by the Board virtually since the promulgation of section 
) ( 9 ) ° f E l a t i o n Y U 2 CFR 225.4(a) (9) .after enactment ..of the 1970 
0f IDs r t S' 
T?°r e x a mP l e> s e e 0 r d e r o f January 27, 197.? Approving Acquisition 
s8 p * Credit Corporation by First Bank System, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
-ggeral Reserve Bulletin 172. 173 (1972). 

5067 
-3-
in that the question whether certain activities constitute "acting as 
insurance agent or broker" for purposes of Regulation Y is a question 
of law, not of fact, and not susceptible to resolution by officers of 
Wilson. However, upon the basis of the facts presented, the Board con-
cludes that Applicant did neither knowingly and willfully make a false 
statement in its application nor engage in a willful violation of the Act. 
Applicant controls one bank with aggregate deposits of $1.9 
Million representing approximately 19 per cent of the total deposits of 
commercial banks in North Carolina. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 
19?3.) Applicant has nonbanking subsidiaries which are engaged principally 
in 
consumer finance activities, mortgage activities, factoring activities, 
ancl insurance agency activities. 
Wilson has previously engaged in the sale of insurance as agent 
in 
connection with its mortgage company activities. Wilson had gross 
commission income of approximately $78 thousand for its fiscal year 1972. 
All 
o f the commissions resulted from the sale, at Wilson's seven offices in 
Clith r 
Carolina, of declining coverage term life insurance policies where the 
erage was equal to the outstanding balance of a mortgage held or serviced 
Wilson and of accident and health insurance policies where the coverage 
^ a l to monthly mortgage payments. Thus, it appears all of Wilson's 
groSs commission income is directly related to an extension of credit by 
WilSon 
or directly related to provision of other financial services by Wilson. 
Although Applicant engages in certain insurance agency activities 
some of its existing subsidiaries, approval of the proposed acquisi-
tion vouiH 
J-a not eliminate any significant existing competition between 

• 
5 1 H i 8 
-4-
Applicant's subsidiaries and Wilson in the area of insurance sales because 
the limited nature of the respective insurance activities. Applicant's 
subsidiaries do not derive income from the sale of credit life or credit 
accident and health insurance to mortgage customers in South Carolina, 
n o r d o e s WHson receive income from the sale of any such insurance in 
North Carolina. 
It is anticipated that the provision of insurance by Wilson 
w i U provide a convenient alternative source of insurance agency services 
its mortgage customers. There is no evidence in the record indicating 
that continuation of Wilson's insurance sales activities would result in 
any undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, conflicts of 
^aterests, unsound banking practices or other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
th 
6 record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
ctors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
Ac cordingly, the application is hereby approved. The insurance sales 
ctivities shall resume not later than three months after the effective 
e Of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
B Q ^ J 
rcl, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. This determination is 
0 subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y 
(12 
CFR 225.4(c)) and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 

-5-
5069 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 28, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
j' Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
dimmer, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
"eehan and Bucher, 

5070 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/27/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
A R R I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 27, 1973 
• First National City 
Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 18, 1973, the Boai 
of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Section 
4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended and 
Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold, directly or indirectly, additional shares of Ramada 
Europe, Inc. ("RE"), Delaware, and lend up to $560,000 to RE on 
a subordinated convertible basis, such loan to be convertible into 
common shares of RE, resulting in a total cost of approximately^ 
$1,260,000, representing a potential of up to 25.2. per cent equity 
interest in RE; provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
, 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester- B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

BOARD D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 10 
12/27/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D ; 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 27„ 1973 
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation 
350 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 18, 1973 the 
Board of GolelZl grants consent, pursuant to the p r o v ^ o n s ^
5 Section 4(c) (13) 
C a t i o n 
amended and Section 225.4(f) ot Regulation, 
j 
shares 
to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, al1 of the share 
of Manufacturers Hanover Leasing Canada Limi ted 
W H Canada ) 
Toronto, Canada, at a cost of aPProltl
i:f 
/ ^ 
1 
" a c of this 
at least $50,000 is invested within one yeai Irora tne a 
letter. 
As a Subsidiary of a bank holding company under Sec-
M II Canada shall confine its activities to inter 
national or foreign banking and other international or foreign 
financial operations. 
The foregoing consent is given « l . t h e
r
c o " " t i ! " 
and its affiliates. 
v 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

GOV^'. 
.v\f„ IF 
R E ^ V 
BOARD D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
i j l j 6 
Item No. 11 
12/27/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 27, 1973 
Bamerical International Financial Corporation 
Bank of America Center 
San Francisco, California 94104 
Gentlemen: 
_ 
As requested in your letter of December 12, 1973, and 
references, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corpora-
tion ("BIFC") to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, up to 
approximately 92 per cent of the shares of BankAmerica Finance^ 
Limited ("BFL"), Reading, England, at a cost of approximately £690,000 
(about $1,718,000), provided the shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. In this connection, approval is also 
granted for the purchase and holding of shares of BFL in excess of 
10 per cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of BFL by BIFC is granted subject to the following condi-
tions : 
(1) That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BFL if BFL at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if BFL establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
England or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to BIFC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, BIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BFL as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BFL 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BFL were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Associa-
tion, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of BFL. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
v. 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

5074 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 12 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 2 / 2 7 / 7 3 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S ornciAL C O R R E S P O N O E N C 
T D 
T H C 
O O A R D 
. December 27, 1973 
Chemical International Finance, Ltd. 
20 Pine Street 
New York, New York 10008 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 12, 1973, and 
references, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corpora-
tion ("CTF") to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all ot 
the shares of C.N.Y. Finanz A.G. ("CNYF"), Zurich, Switzerland at 
a cost of approximately Sfr5,000,000 (about $1,550,000), provided 
the shares are acquired within one year from the date or this letter, 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CNYF by CIF is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That CTF shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in CNYF if CNYF at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if CNYF establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Switzerland or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to CIF; 
v 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, CIF 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of CNYF as it may require from time 
- to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CNYF 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if CNYF were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

. 5075 
Chemical International Finance, Ltd. -2-
Subiect to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter sc, far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of CNYF. 
The Board has noted that the letter of July 11, 1973, in-
dicated that adequate information covering CNYF's operations in 
Switzerland will be maintained at your head office and will be 
available to the Board and bank supervisory authorities. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that;the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to Chemical Bank and its afriliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
* 
o 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
-
T H E 
Item No. 13 
I S F . R V E S' 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
•'M^Mii:- 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/27/73 
A O C R C S S 
O F F I C I A U 
C D R R C B P O N O T N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D Q A R D 
f^URt^' 
December 27, 1973 
The Fidelity Bank 
Broad and Walnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19109 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 2, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Regulation >1, for The Fidelity Bank ( Fidelity ), 
Rosemont, Pennsylvania, to purchase and hold uP to 80 per cent of the 
shares of Banque de la Medlterranee ("BdlM"), Beirut Lebanon at a 
total cost of approximately L£ll,900,000 ($4,760,000), provided the 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter/ 
The Board also grants permission for your bank to obtain and hold an 
option to the remaining 20 per cent of the stock of BdlM, provided 
that the conscnt of the Board of Governors is obtained prior to the 
exercise of said option. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
of BdlM by Fidelity is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if BdlM shall in any manner engage in 
any activity or take any action whatsoever that 
would not be permissible if BdlM were a corpora-
tion organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
Fidelity will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of BdlM as it may require 
from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BdlM 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BdlM were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

. 5(377 
The Fidelity Bank 
(4) That Fidelity shall not carry on its books the shares 
of BdlM at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of BdlM, after giving 
effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) 
. of Regulation K. 
The conditions set forth in the second paragraph of this 
letter apply until such time as Fidelity reduces its holding to 
21 per cent, or less, of the stock of BdlM, and presents evidence 
that Fidelity no longer exercises effective control of BdlM through 
stock ownership, directors, contract, management, or otherwise. 
This consent is granted subject to the further condition 
that within three years from the date of this letter BdlM will ciis-
— 
of its nonfinancial real estate interests, now held indirectly 
through a subsidiary, unless the conditions in the second paragraph 
of this letter have been suspended in accordance with the immediately 
preceding paragraph. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
» 
\ 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

mm; 
?4L RE^V 
B D A R D OF 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
5078 
Item No. 14 
12/27/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 27, 1973 
Bankers International Corporation 
"16 Wall Street 
New York, New York 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of October 19 and 31, 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIC") 
to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all of the shares of 
BT Canada, Ltd., ("BTC"), Toronto, Canada, at a cost of approximately 
$1,000; all of the shares of BT Financial Services, Ltd., ("BTF"), 
Montreal, Canada, at a cost of approximately $1,000; and all of the 
shares of BT Securities, Ltd., ("BIS"), Montreal, Canada, at a cost 
of approximately $75,000, provided the shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of BTC by BIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BTC if BTC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if BTC establishes any branch or 
V 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Canada or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to BIC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, BIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BTC as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BTC be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if BTC were a corporation organized 
under Scction 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

. 5079 
Bankers International Corporation 
- 2 -
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by ETC in Canada in the 
currency of that country. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of BTF and BTS by BIC is granted subject to the same conditions 
and suspensions as imposed above on the holding of shares of BIC, 
substituting BTF and BTS for BTC. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisitions, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of BTC, BTF and BTS. 
You have requested consent for BTS to engage in the business 
of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board's consent to such 
activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining tne prior 
consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares o f B ^ should 
BTS acquire stock of individual issuers costing m excess of $j00,000 or 
representing 23 per cent or more of the voting shares of any company, 
except in the case of underwriting operations covered by firm commitments 
f r o m subunderwriters or other purchasers. With respect to trading in 
securities in which Corporations are prohibited from investing by the 
provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of ^ e Federal Reserve* 
Act 
the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact that BTS will 
acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size and 
turnover of inventory that is reasonable in the relation to demand, and 
dispose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However 
they are to 
be reported as a separate class, together with the date f -quisition 
on any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested by the Board. 
You have requested consent for BTF and BTS to engage in the 
business of providing consulting services outside the United States. 
The Board's consent is granted subject to the condition that such services 
' relating to the U. S. market will be confined to the initial entry oi 
foreign companies into that market. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

5080 
B D A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y S T E M 
• F THE 
Item No. 15 
12/27/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R C S P Q N D C N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 27, 1973 
Mr. Martin Bergin, Secretary 
Retirement System of the 
Federal Reserve Banks 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 10045 
The Board has approved two matters relating to the Board 
Retirement Plan for the purpose of providing comparable retirement and 
disability allowances to those available under the Civil Service Retire 
ment System. 
The first of these is the incorporation into the administra 
tion of the Board Plan of the previsions of the Public Law 93-136, signed 
by the President October 24, 1973. The effect of this action is to 
liberalize the eligibility requirements for cost of living increases that 
are payable to retiring employees and certain beneficiaries under the 
Board Plan. Enclosed are copies of the Public Law and an explanatory 
press release issued by the U.S. Civil Service Commission on November 8, 
1973, concerning its operation. 
The second item is the decision of the Board to take no action 
to prevent the incorporation into the administration of the Board Plan 
of a cost of living increase for Board Plan retirees ana their benefici-
aries in the amount of 5.5 per cent, effective January 1, 1974* A copy 
of a press statement issued by the Civil Service Commission on November 28, 
1973, explaining the terms of the increase in benefits and the applica-
bility of Public Law 93-136 in this instance is enclosed for your infor-
mation. 
The Board of Governors asks that the Retirement Plan actuary 
determine the cost of incorporating these benefits into the Board Retire 
ment Plan, with a view to having such costs charged against surplus 
reserves allocable to the Board Plan. 
o 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Theordore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary 
Enclosures 

5081 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 16 
12/27/73 
FIDELITY CORPORATION OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Application to Engage in the Underwriting of Credit Life 
and Credit Accident and Health Insurance 
Fidelity Corporation of Pennsylvania, Rosemont, Pennsylvania, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to engage de novo, through its 
subsidiary, Master Life Insurance Company ("Master"), in the underwriting, 
a s reinsurer, of credit life and credit accident and health insurance in 
connection with extensions of credit in Florida by Applicant's subsidiary, 
Local Finance Company of Florida ("Local"). Such activities have been 
determined by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(10)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 29841). The time for filing com-
ments and views has expired, and none has been received. 
Applicant controls one bank with total deposits of $1.4 billion, 
^presenting 3.9 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in Penn-
sylvania, and that bank is the fifth largest bank in the State. (All 
banking data are as of June 30, 1973.) 
Master was formed under Arizona law. As Master is qualified to 
Ur*derwrite insurance directly only in Arizona, its activities in Florida 
will be limited to acting as reinsurer of credit life and credit accident 
health insurance policies made available in connection with extensions 
of credit by Local. Such insurance will be directly underwritten by an 
Usurer qualified to underwrite in Florida and will thereafter be ceded 
t o Master under a reinsurance agreement. 

.. 5082 
-2-
Credit life and credit accident and health insurance is generally 
made available by banks and other consumer lenders and is designed to 
assure repayment of a loan in the event of death or disability of a 
borrower. Applicant also proposes to underwrite joint credit life insurance 
The Board has permitted such insurance to be underwritten by subsidiaries 
bank holding companies when both of the insured parties are co-makers 
° r co-signers of a note issued in connection with an extension of credit 
applicant will limit Its underwriting of joint credit life insurance to 
SUch instances. 
In connection with its addition of credit life underwriting to 
tbe list of permissible activities for bank holding companies the Board 
stated: 
To assure that engaging in the underwriting of credit 
life and credit accident and health insurance can 
reasonably be expected to be in the public interest, 
the Board will only approve applications in which 
an applicant demonstrates that approval will benefit 
the consumer or result in other public benefits. 
Normally such a showing would be made by a pro-
jected reduction in rates or increase in policy 
benefits due to bank holding company performance 
of this service. 
U f 
Applicant states that it will provide single and joint credit 
nsurance at rates to consumers about 7 per cent below the maximum 
tates authorized by State law, and will eliminate the suicide exclusion 
such policies. Applicant will not reduce premium rates for credit 
Implication of Irwin Union Corporation to acquire Irwin Union Credit 
Company, 38 Federal Register 32009 (November 20, 1973). 

5083 
accident and health insurance, but will eliminate "pre-existing condition" 
and other exclusions from such policies. The Board believes the reduced 
cost of, and elimination of exclusions from, credit life and credit accident 
and health insurance is procompetitive and is in the public interest. The 
Board concludes, therefore, that such public benefits outweigh any possible 
\ 
adverse effects of approval of the application. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This deter-
mination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regula-
tion Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification or ter-
mination of the activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries 
a s the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions 
and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued 
thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. This determination is subject 
to the further condition that the activities described herein shall 
b e commenced not later than three months after the effective date of this 
0rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
ISEAL] 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
^Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
naner> a n d Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Bums and Governors 
Sheehan and Bucher. 

5081 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 17 
12/27/73 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisitions of Banks 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
^ t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the successors by merger to 
(1) The First National Bank of San Angelo, San Angelo, Texas ("San 
Ar*gel0 Bank"); and (2) The First National Bank of Paris, Paris, Texas 
("Pari3 Bank"). The banks into which San Angelo Bank and Paris Bank 
a r e to be merged have no significance except as a means to facilitate 
acquisition of the voting shares of San Angelo Bank and Paris Bank. 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisitions of the shares of the successor 
°rganizations are treated herein as the proposed acquisitions of the 
shares of San Angelo Bank and Paris Bank. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Pers°ns to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
w U h § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
^Pired, and none have been timely received. The Board has considered 
the 
e aPplications in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

51)85 
2 -
Applicant controls 18 banks with aggregate deposits of $ 2.4 
billion representing approximately 7 per cent of total deposits in com-
1/ 
mercial banks in Texas.- 
Acquisition of San Angelo Bank (deposits of 
$53.4 million) and of Paris Bank (deposits of $31.9 million) by Applicant 
would not significantly increase the concentration of banking resources 
in Texas. 
San Angelo Bank ranks as the third largest bank in its relevant 
banking market with approximately 22.5 per cent of deposits in the market.-^ 
There is no substantial existing competition between any of Applicant's 
banking subsidiaries and San Angelo Bank, nor is there a reasonable proba-
bility of substantial future competition developing between any of Applicant's 
banking subsidiaries and San Angelo Bank due to the distances involved and 
Te*as branching laws. Affiliation of San Angalo Bank with Applicant may 
enable the former to become a more vigorous competitor of the largest bank 
wllich controls approximately 36 per cent of deposits in the market and is 
Presently affiliated with a large Texas bank holding company. 
The Board, in its opinion on the application by First International 
Bancshares, Dallas, to acquire the Citizens First National Bank of Tyler, 
lcated a concern with the trend toward acquisitions by the largest holding 
for A 1 1 b a n k i n 8 data are as of June 30, 1973, and reflect bank holding company 
2/ n )^ t i o n s a nd acquisitions approved by the Board through November 30, 1973. 
Anoei 
r e l e v a n t banking market for analysis of the acquisition of the San 
6 i o Bank is approximated by the San Angelo SMSA. 

- 3 -
51)86 
companies in Texas of leading banks in secondary SMSAs. The acquisition 
of San Angelo Bank is a marginal case but does not warrant denial. San 
Angelo Bank is not of such an absolute size that the proposed acquisition 
W H 1 significantly contribute to an imbalance in state structure; nor will 
the acquisition retard the development of the smaller holding companies by 
removing those larger size banks in secondary SMSA markets which could 
serve as principal members of such smaller organizations. 
Paris Bank is the largest bank in its relevant banking market 
3/ 
controlling about 40.5 per cent of deposits in the market.- 
There is no 
substantial existing competition between any of Applicant's banking subsi-
diaries and Paris Bank, nor is there a reasonable probability of future 
competition developing betx^een Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Paris 
Bank due to the distances involved and Texas branching law. Nor is there 
a n y substantial existing competition or probability of substantial compe-
tition developing between San Angelo and Paris Bank due to the distance between 
Mi 
G two. Further, Applicant cannot be considered a probable future entrant 
in t-0 the Lamar County market since the market is relatively unattractive 
cljj 
measured by the population and deposits per banking office ratios, which 
a r e considerably lower than the comparable Statewide averages, and also due 
t o the low population growth from 1960 to 1970 of Lamar County compared to 
t h e P°Pulation growth of the State as a whole during that period. Based on 
^ G S G and other facts of record, the Board concludes that the competitive 
°nsiderations of both applications are consistent with approval. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
App^j 
cant, its subsidiary banks, and San Angelo Bank and Paris Bank are 
^ 
The 
Bank .G relevant banking market for analysis of the acquisition of the Paris 
a S(i 
approximated by Lamar County. Lamar County is not classified as 
econdary SMSA. 

- 4 -
5087 
generally satisfactory particularly in view of Applicant's commitment to 
add capital to San Angelo Bank, Paris Bank, and one of its other banking sub-
sidiaries. This factor weighs in support of approval of both applications. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served are consistent with approval of the applications. The Board con-
cludes that both applications are in the public interest and should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be made (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 2, 1974. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEAL} 
4/ 
B r i m
 
C l n8 for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
She^i 
' a n d Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
neehan and Bucher. 

_ 5088 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR DAANE 
I concur in the decision of the majority to approve the 
applications to acquire San Angelo Bank and Paris Bank. Hovever, I 
cannot concur in the majority's attempt to distinguish its approval of 
Applicant's acquisition of San Angelo Bank from the Board's denial of 
the application of First International Bankshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, 
to acquire Citizens First National Bank of Tyler, Tyler, Texas, from 
wh*ch I dissented, San Angelo Bank is one of the three leading banks 
i n a secondary SMSA in Texas. Though ranking third in such SMSA as 
°PPosed to the number one rank of Tyler in its SMSA, there is no 
significant difference in their respective market shares nor is the 
"tyler SMSA that much more attractive an area for entry than the San Angelo 
SMSA. For this reason, I concur in the result but not the reasoning by 
wh*ch the result is reached. 
January 2, 1974. 

5089 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 18 
12/27/73 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Dank 
First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Gadsden State Bank ("Gadsden Bank"), Chattahoochee, Florida. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(*2 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 15 banks with aggregate deposits of 
$878.6 million representing about 4.0 per cent of deposits in commercial 
banks in Florida.-'' Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $6.9 million) 
ky Appiicant vjoyid n o t r e s uit in a substantial increase in the concen-
tration of banking resources in Florida. 
cora
A11 b a n k i n g ^ a t a a r e a s o f J u n e 30> 1 9 7 3» a n d represent bank holding 
ropany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
°vember 30, 1973. 

5090 
-2-
Bank controls approximately 15 per cent of deposits in commercial 
banks in the relevant market and ranks third among four banking organi-
zations located in the market.A' There is no substantial existing compe-
tition between any of Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank, nor is a 
substantial amount of competition likely to develop in the future between 
any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Bank, particularly in view of 
distances involved and Florida's branching laws. Applicant is not a 
likely de novo entrant into the relevant banking market; the market is 
characterized by declining population growth, and deposits and population 
Per banking office ratios are considerably lower there than are such 
ratios for banks in the State as a whole. Based on these and other facts 
record, the Board concludes that competitive considerations relative 
t o this application are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f AppH c a nt, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as generally 
satisfactory; and these factors are consistent with approval of the 
aPplication. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served lend some weight for approval of the application 
since acquisition of Bank by Applicant will enable Bank to provide for 
increased management depth and to become a more aggressive competitor. 
The R 
e Board concludes that consummation of the transaction would be in the 
Public interest. 
2 / T'U 
1 
^• 
e relevant banking market is approximated by Gadsden County and a 
portion of Jackson County. The counties are located in the panhandle 
a of Florida. 

. 5091 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be executed 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
°f this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective December 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Brimnler> and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Sheehan and Bucher. 

5032 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o- 1 9 
12/27/73 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), 
to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of Citizens 
Bank and Trust Company ("Quincy Bank"), Quincy, Florida. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 15 banks xdLth aggregate deposits of 
$878.6 million representing about 4.0 per cent of deposits in commercial 
banks in Florida.Acquisition of Quincy Bank (deposits of $16.9 million) 
b y Applicant would not significantly increase the concentration of banking 
resources in Florida. 
y All banking data are as of June 30, 1973, and represent bank holding 
Company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through November 30, 
3. The total of banks controlled by Applicant does not include Gadsden 
ate Bank, Chattahoochee, Florida, whose acquisition by Applicant has 
e e n aPProved by the Board as of this date. 

5033 
-2-
Quincy Bank is the second largest among banks in the relevant 
banking market, with control of about 32 per cent of deposits in com-
2/ 
mercial banks in the market.— 
Though Applicant is not presently 
represented in this market, the Board has today approved Applicant's 
acquisition of the third largest bank in the market, Gadsden State 
Bank. If the Board also approved the application to acquire Quincy 
Bank, consummation of both acquisitions would result in Applicant 
having approximately a 47 per cent share of the market and controlling 
two of the four alternative sources of banking services in the market. 
The Board considers such concentration of market power through acquisition 
to be undesirable particularly in view of the fact that the relevant 
market is not likely to attract future entry in the reasonably foreseeable 
future. The population of the market has declined over the last ten 
years, the per capita income is significantly below that in the State 
as a whole, and the population and deposits per banking office ratios 
a re also lower than Statewide ratios. There is not a reasonable probability 
future entry that would lessen the concentration of banking resources 
the market that would result from approval of both the application 
to acquire Quincy Bank and that to acquire Gadsden Bank. Based on 
the facts of record, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
transaction herein would have a substantially adverse effect on competition 
i n the market. 
2/ The relevant banking market Is approximated by Gadsden County and a 
®mall portion of Jackson County, both of which counties are located in 
the panhandle area of Florida. 

5094 
-3-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as generally 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. However, 
these factors do not outweigh the substantial adverse effects that 
would result from consummation of this transaction. Applicant's acqui-
sition of Bank would provide Bank with additional capabilities that it 
might not be able to obtain on its own. However, these considerations 
are not sufficient to outweigh the substantial adverse effects 
described above. Moreover, these capabilities could probably be obtained 
through affiliation of Bank with another banking organization not presently 
represented in the market. The Board concludes that the proposed trans-
action is not In the public interest and should be denied. 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-/ effective December 27, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
I T Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Sheehan and Bucher. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHWEST FLORIDA BANKS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Southwest Florida Banks, Inc., Fort Myers, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of North 
First Bank, North Fort Myers, Florida ("North First Bank"), and South 
First Bank, Fort Myers, Florida, ("South First Bank"), both proposed 
new banks. 
Notice of the applications affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and all those received, including those submitted on behalf of Lee County 
Bank, Security National Bank, and Peoples Bank in North Fort Myers, 
all located in Fort Myers, Florida, have been considered in light 
o f the factors set forth in J 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls five banks with aggregate deposits of 
aPproximately $242 million, respresenting 1.2 per cent of the total com-
mercial bank deposits in Florida, and is the 19th ranking banking organiza-
tion in the State -JL/ Applicant has three banking subsidiaries located 
In the Lee County banking market, the relevant market, including its 
Yc 
hanking data, unless otherwise indicated, are as of June 60, 
1-/3, and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
by the Board through November 30, 1973. 
5035 
Item No. 20 
12/27/73 

-2-
lead bank, First National Bank in Fort Myers ("First National Bank") 
($139.7 million in deposits). Applicant ranks as the largest banking 
organization in the market with control of 35 per cent of market deposits. 
North First Bank will be located in an unincorporated area 
of Fort Myers, referred to as North Fort Myers, separated from downtown 
Fort Myers by the Caloosahatchee River. Applicant's closest subsidiary 
to North First Bank is its lead bank, First National Bank, 2.2 miles to 
the south and on the opposite side of the Caloosahatchee from the 
Proposed North First Bank. North First Bank's closest competitor is 
Peoples Bank ($3 8,1 million in deposits) which is also located in North 
Fort Myers and is a subsidiary of United First Florida Banks, Inc., the 
State's fourth largest banking organization. The second largest bank 
in the market, Lee County Bank ($104.8 million in deposits), a sub-
sidiary of First Financial Corporation, is situated only 1.7 miles south 
o f the proposed North First Bank but on the opposite end of the Caloosa-
hatchee Bridge. Lee County Bank intervenes between this proposed banking 
subsidiary and Applicant's lead bank. 
South First Bank's proposed location is in an unincorporated area 
o f Lee County, about seven miles southwest of downtown Fort Myers. Appli-
cant's closest subsidiary to South First Bank is its lead bank, located 
9*8 miles to the north. Intervening between First National Bank and 
South First Bank are banking subsidiaries of Barnett Banks of Florida, 
I n c», and First Financial Corporation, respectively, the second and seventh 
^rgest bank holding companies in Florida, controlling 14.1 and 22.5 per 
cent of market deposits. Also intervening is a de novo subsidiary 

of Palmer Bank Corporation and 
independent bank. Applicant's second 
largest Fort Myers banking subsidiary ($14.1 million in deposits), is 
located on Estero Island, about two miles east of State highway 865. 
Its location tends to isolate this banking subsidiary from the rest of 
Fort Myers. Applicant's third banking subsidiary in the Lee County 
banking market, East First National ($8.8 million in deposits), is about 
3.6 miles to the north of Applicant's lead bank and would appear to have 
no significant competitive consequence in the area to be served by 
South First Bank. 
Since these applications involve the establishment of de novo 
banks no existing or potential competition between any of Applicant's 
existing subsidiaries and North First Bank or South First Bank would be 
eliminated by the proposals, nor would concentration be increased in 
any relevant area. 
In its analysis of these applications, the Board has considered 
the objections from various protestant parties. Briefly stated, 
Protestants claim that consummation of the proposed transactions would 
Perpetuate the high level of deposit concentration in the market, 
increase the barriers to entry, eliminate any possibility for eventual 
^concentration, and allow Applicant to obtain a position of dominance 
in the market. An additional contention is that if these applications 
are approved Applicant will have three de novo subsidiaries in the Lee 
County market, including among the three, Bank of the Islands, Sanibel-
captiva ("Bank of the Islands"), a proposed de novo bank, located about 
1 2 miles southwest of South First Bank. 

5098 
- 4 -
Since 1960, the Lee County banking market has enjoyed 
significant population growth. Between 1960 and 1970, the Fort Myers 
area increased in population by nearly 93 per cent; since 1970, population 
has risen an additional 14 per cent. Over the past five years, deposits 
have grown by 204 per cent. Projections indicate that by 1980 the 
population of the Lee County area will be about 66 per cent greater 
than that in 1970. Indicative of this growth is the fact that four 
new banks opened between 1968 and 1973. In addition, three new bank 
charters have recently been approved (not including those of North 
First Bank and South First Bank) and five new bank charters are pending. 
Simultaneously with the area's population growth, a pronounced 
trend toward deconcentration has occurred, between year end 1965 
and year end 1972, the share of Lee County commercial bank deposits 
held by the three largest banking organizations declined from 84.2 
per cent to 75.7 per cent. During the same period, Applicant's market 
share declined from 46 per cent to 35.4 per cent. Since 1958, Applicant's 
market share has declined by 17 percentage points while the number of 
banks in the market has increased from two to eleven. Three of the ten 
largest banking organizations and bank holding companies in Florida 
entered the Lee County market in 1973 and may be expected to increase 
further the vigor of competition in this market. From all the facts 
of record, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
transactions would not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any 
combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business of bank-
ing in any relevant area. 

. 5099 
-4-
Only one bank is presently located in the primary service area 
for the proposed North First Bank and this area has grown from a 
population of 7,900 in 1960 to over 20,000 in 1972. The service area 
of proposed South First Bank has also shown significant growth 
(from 3,200 in 1960 to approximately 12,500 in 1970). Similarly, only one 
existing bank is located in South First Bank's proposed primary service area. 
In each instance, the areas are in the early stages of development and 
appear capable of supporting such institutions. It appears further that 
a substantial portion of the deposits in both North First Bank and South 
First Bank will come from the transfer of deposits from Applicant's existing 
banking subsidiaries to the more conveniently located proposed banking 
subsidiaries. 
Moreover, all of the banks located near the areas to be served 
by the proposed Banks, including the protestants' banks, have experienced 
reasonably good growth. Each appears to have the ability to respond to 
any increase in competition which might result from consummation of 
Applicant's proposals. It is the Board's judgment upon consideration 
of all the facts in the record that approval of the applications would 
not have a significantly adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. 
Protestants contend that Applicant will have control over another 
hank in the Lee County banking market, Bank of the Islands,2/ and that approval 
o f the instant proposals would thereby give Applicant control over six banks in 
the Lee County banking market. After consideration of all the facts of 
37~Bank of the Islands has received all necessary regulatory approvals, 
hut has not yet opened for business. 

-2-
5100 
record, including the absence of any officer and/or director interlocks 
between Bank of the Islands and Applicant or any of Applicant's banking 
subsidiaries, and the fact that but 7 per cent of the stock in Bank 
of the Islands is held by shareholders owning around 1 per cent of the 
stock in Applicant, It is the Board's judgment that approval of these 
applications would confer upon Applicant control over five fcan'-.s in 
the Lee County banking market an'd that Bank of the Islands will not be 
under Applicant's control. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f Applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactory. 
Prospects for Banks appear favorable since they would have capable and 
experienced management and would be adequately capitalized. Banks would 
each be able to provide an additional source of full banking services 
in areas which are experiencing rapid growth. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the areas to be served lend slight 
support to approval of the applications. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed acquisitions would be in the public interest and that 
the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be made (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) North 
pirst Bank, North Fort Myers, Florida, and South First Bank, Fort 
^yers, Florida, shall be opened for business not later than six months 

-2-
.. 5101 
after the effective date of this Order. Each of the periods described 
in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 28, 1973 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Sheehan and Bucher. 

5102 
BDARD DF G D V E R N • R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F THE 
Item No. 21 
12/27/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 28, 1973 
Board of Directors 
North First Bank 
North Fort Myers, Florida 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of North First Bank, North Fort Myers, 
Florida, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, effective 
if and when the bank opens for business under appropriate State 
authorization, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set 
forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $600,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$ 6 0 0 , 0 0 0 . 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is "enclosed. 

5103 
North First Bank 
- 2 -
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, 
will be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve 
Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice of 
compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be trans-
mitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Arrangements will there-
upon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required reserve balance, 
and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the 
bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised that 
all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve 
System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means 
for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

. '5104 
T ^ V 
•r W: 
r/ 
. 
- A " 
m 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 22 
12/27/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 28, 1973 
Board of Directors 
South First Bank 
Fort Myers, Florida 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of South First Bank, Fort Myers, Florida, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, effective if and 
when the bank opens for business under appropriate State authorization, 
subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $600,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$600,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

5105 
South First Bank 
- 2 -
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, will 
be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice of 
compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be trans-
mitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Arrangements will there-
upon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required reserve balance, 
and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the 
bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised that 
all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve 
System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means 
for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
OFTHE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 30551 
Item No. 10 
12/27/73 
G E O R G E W. MITCHELL 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 27, 1973 
Mr. Frank S. Jackson, President 
Massachusetts Bankers Association 
125 High Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02110 
Dear Mr. Jackson: 
The Board has received and considered your petition 
for a reconsideration of its NOW account regulations. It 
does not believe that any unilateral action it can take at 
this time would be constructive. 
The statutory instructions to the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee are to consult before acting, and in 
this case, as in others, the Board has followed this instruc-
tion carefully and precisely. In that context, the Board has/ 
endeavored, in its negotiation, to reach agreement with the 
other agencies. In the case of the NOW account regulations, 
complete agreement was not possible. 
The agencies have jointly instituted a surveillance 
system to monitor NOW account activity and promotional steps 
taken by Massachusetts and New Hampshire institutions with 
respect to this type of account. Until the monitoring system 
now in place indicates how the competitive situation is 
developing, the Board believes that efforts to change the 
existing regulations would not be fruitful. It is, of course, 
possible that promotional announcements on or about January 1 
will be a cause for immediate reconsideration; but at this 
time there appears to be no change in the facts and no basis 
for new interpretations of them by the agencies. 
The Board will be particularly sensitive to any 
problems raised by the ability of savings and loan associa-
tions to make NOW accounts available to State and local 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
o 
Mr. Frank S. Jackson 
-2- 
December 27, 1973 
governments. In response to a recent letter from Mr. Edward R. 
Tufts, I have addressed this issue. Copies of this corre-
spondence are enclosed. 
• 
/ 
Let me, in closing, assure you of the Board's con-
cern that there not occur in Massachusetts and New Hampshire 
situations that will be prejudicial to the long-run interests 
of consumers or depository institutions. 
Sincerely yours, 
Enclosures 2 
\ 
( 
