MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 12, 1973 

43 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 12, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Broida, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Altmann, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The research staff presented the regular weekly economic and 
financial review. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
°f the individual briefings. Mr. Rippey then commented on the status 
°f proposed legislation of interest to the Board. 
Staff members who had attended only for purposes of the review 
then withdrew and the following entered: 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

43 SZ 
11/12/73 
-2-
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting its approval, on November 1, 1973, of the application of 
Irwin Union Corporation, Columbus, Indiana, to acquire shares of 
Irwin Union Credit Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 1. Attached as Item No. 2 is a copy of a letter 
informing other applicants which had previously received approval by 
the Board to underwrite credit life insurance that they might file 
applications to engage in that activity to the somewhat broader extent 
allowed under the Irwin Union Corporation decision. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its 
approval, on October 17, 1973, of the application of The Connecticut 
BancFederation, Inc., New Britain, Connecticut, to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of shares of The Guaranty Bank & Trust 
Company, Hartford; New Britain Bank and Trust Company, New Britain; 
and Terryville Trust Company, Terryville, all located in Connecticut. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. In the form in which 

4393 
11/12/73 
-3-
it was approved, the order reflected a change agreed upon during discus-
sion in a draft that had been distributed. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Commonwealth 
National Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of Town 
Bank and Trust Company, Brookline, Massachusetts, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
I_tem No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Indian Head 
Banks, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire, to acquire shares of Keene National 
Bank, Keene, New Hampshire, and authorized issuance of an order reflect-
ing this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Heritage 
Bancorporation, Cherry Hill, New Jersey, to acquire shares of First 
Charter National Bank, Monroe Township (P. 0. Jamesburg), New Jersey, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Dominion 
Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, to acquire shares of Fitton 
Insurance Agency, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia. The approval was condi-
tioned upon the reduction of that portion of agency premium income that 
is not directly related to extensions of credit or the provision of 
other financial services by Fitton Agency to less than 5 per cent of 

1394 
11/12/73 
-4-
its premium income directly related to extensions of credit within 
two years from the date of the Board's approval. The Board authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
I_tem No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southeast 
Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Peoples 
National Bank, Naples, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Dawson 
Corporation, Lexington, Nebraska, (1) to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of The Farmers State Bank, also of 
Lexington, and (2) to engage de novo in the sale of credit life and 
credit accident and health insurance in Lexington. The Board authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting these decisions. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 9. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of FrostBank 
Corporation, San Antonio, Texas, to retain the assets of Data Processing 
Center, an operating division of a wholly-owned subsidiary, Main Plaza 
Corporation, also of San Antonio. The Board authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 10. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Long Island 
Trust Company, Garden City, New York, to issue capital notes. A copy 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 11. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 

43JJ5 
11/12/73 
-5-
Interpretation of Regulation T. In a memorandum dated Novem-
ber 8, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation described a 
Problem that had arisen with respect to the applicability of an inter-
pretation of Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, issued in 
May 1971. The Securities and Exchange Commission regarded investment 
contracts such as the sale of real estate with related management and 
sales services as a security, and therefore subject to the Board's 
regulations regarding credit for securities transactions. Under the 
1971 interpretation in question, a broker/dealer would not be regarded 
as arranging for credit under Regulation T in the sale of investment 
contracts consisting of a tract of land in an orange grove with a 
management and sales contract if the only credit extended was a mortgage 
the land and the purchaser had the option whether or not to enter 
into the management and sales contract. The restrictions of Regula-
tion T therefore would not be applicable. 
Counsel for Organizacion Ideal, S.A. de C.V., had conferred 
with the Board's staff, seeking an opinion that the exception in the 
1971 interpretation would apply to a plan under which their client 
would sell condominiums in Acapulco, Mexico, under a 30-year lease 
and with a required financing arrangement for purchase of furniture. 
The Board's staff, in a letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
dated September 18, 1973, expressed the view that the terms of sale of 
interests in the Mexican condominiums did not meet the conditions upon 

4396 
H/12/73 
-6-
which the 1971 interpretation was specifically based, and therefore 
Regulation T would forbid broker/dealers to sell the contracts. 
Counsel for Organizacion Ideal had requested that the Board review the 
staff position, possibly as a prerequisite to seeking relief in the 
courts. However, the client had offered to give up the offer of credit 
the furniture package, if that were a condition to favorable action 
by the Board. The staff submitted a draft letter to counsel in terms 
°f confirmation by the Board of the position stated by the staff in 
its earlier letter. 
The memorandum of November 8, 1973, brought out that in May 1973, 
at the request of the SEC staff, the Board's staff had begun restudying 
the 1971 interpretation in the light of further information relating 
to the sale of resort condominiums and had come to the conclusion 
that the interpretation was too broad and did not represent the better 
view of the law. Rather than withdraw the interpretation, which could 
have caused hardship to existing issuers of investment contracts, the 
Board had published in July a proposed amendment to Regulation T that 
would have the effect of reversing the interpretation prospectively. 
After an extension of the time for receiving comments, the proposed 
amendment was still pending. In the meantime, the SEC had asked its 
staff to explore with the Board's staff the possibility of creating a 
specific exemption covering the sale of resort condominiums with related 
rental agreements. 

4337 
H/12/73 
-7-
Discussion at today's meeting included expressions of view 
that highly technical distinctions were involved in the staff's conclu-
sion that the plans for sale of the Mexican condominiums were essen-
tially different from those involved in the 1971 interpretation. If 
it were to be held that the Mexican investment contracts could not 
he sold by broker/dealers, it would be better to do so on the basis 
°f the pending amendment to Regulation T. Majority sentiment developed 
in favor of a "no action" position, in which the Board would not make 
the determination sought by Organizacion Ideal but neither would it 
recommend enforcement action to the SEC if the offering were to proceed 
without the furniture financing arrangement. A number of changes were 
agreed upon in the draft letter to reflect the views expressed. 
Governor Brimmer differed from the majority; he regarded the 
investment contracts as efforts to promote sales of pools of assets, 
and he thought that the Board should not be lenient with respect to 
them. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, a letter to counsel for 
Organizacion Ideal was approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, in the 
form attached as Item No. 12. It was understood that the staff would 
expedite presentation to the Board of the pending amendment to Regula-
tion T, and that the staff would pursue with the SEC the latter's sugges-
tion that relief of some kind be provided for the sale of resort condo-
miniums with related rental contracts. 

43D8 
11/12/73 
-8-
Loans to affiliates (section 23A). Inquiries had been 
received as to whether, and in what circumstances, a member bank may 
participate in (or purchase), without recourse, mortgage loans made 
°r acquired by its mortgage banking affiliate without observance of 
the limitations and collateral requirements on loans to affiliates 
set forth in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. Attached to a 
memorandum of July 5, 1973, from the Legal Division was a proposed 
interpretation. The Division requested tentative approval of the 
interpretation and its referral to the Interagency Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation prior to its adoption. 
The interpretation would express the view that the transaction 
m question "would involve a loan or extension of credit to the affiliate 
if the latter had either made, or committed itself to make, the loan 
0 r extension of credit evidenced by the note prior to the time when 
the member bank first obligated itself, by commitment or otherwise, 
to purchase the loan or a participation therein. However, there would 
be no loan or extension of credit by the member bank to its mortgage 
hanking affiliate if the member bank's commitment to purchase the loan, 
° r a participation therein, without recourse, is obtained by the affi-
liate within the context of a proposed transaction, or series of 
Proposed transactions, in anticipation of the affiliate's commitment 
to make such loan(s), and is based upon the bank's independent evaluation 
°f the credit-worthiness of the mortgagor(s). . . ." 

4 s m 
11/12/73 
-9-
In a memorandum of October 31, 1973, the Division of Research 
and Statistics commented on the effect of the proposed ruling and 
expressed agreement with the recommended position. 
Discussion at today's meeting reflected differing views. 
Some members of the Board spoke of the danger that permissiveness 
might expose banks to the risk of purchasing unsound loans from a 
mortgage affiliate. Other members mentioned the possible benefits 
of a permissive ruling in terms of economy and efficiency, and suggested 
that it might be possible by regulation to screen out the risks and 
preserve some of the benefits. Question was raised whether the Board 
had authority to write regulations in this area. Ensuing comments 
recognized the possible need for legislation granting additional regu-
latory authority. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, action was deferred pending 
an opportunity for additional members of the Board to participate, and 
the staff was requested to undertake further analysis of the policy 
and other issues involved. It was agreed that, until the Board had 
given further consideration to the question regarding the applicability 
°f section 23A to purchase of assets from mortgage banking affiliates, 
action would be deferred also on another item on today's agenda, 
relating to the "purchase of assets" exception to the loans-to-affiliates 

44(H) 
H/12/73 
- l o -
res trie tions in section 23A. The latter was the subject of memoranda 
from the Legal Division dated July 9 and November 9, 1973. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

4401 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
11/12/73 
IRWIN UNION CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Irwin Union Credit Insurance Company 
Irwin Union Corporation, Columbus, Indiana, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
°f the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of Irwin 
Union Credit Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona ("Company"), a company 
that will engage de novo in the underwriting, as reinsurer, of credit 
life and credit accident and health insurance in connection with 
extensions of credit by Applicant's banking subsidiary. Such 
activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related 
to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(10)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public interest 
factors, has been duly published (38 federal Register 20299 and 
21825). The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
ttone has been timely received. 
Applicant controls one bank with total deposits of $120.5 mil-
lion^ representing 0.9 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
banks in Indiana, and is the 18th largest banking organization in 
the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972.) 

4402 
- 2 -
Company will be formed under Arizona law as a limited 
capital stock life insurance company. As Company will be qualified 
underwrite insurance directly only in Arizona, its activities 
will be limited to acting as reinsurer of credit life and credit 
accident and health insurance policies made available in connection 
with extensions of credit by Applicant's banking subsidiary. Such 
insurance will be directly underwritten by an insurer qualified 
to underwrite in Indiana and will thereafter be assigned or ceded 
to Company under a reinsurance agreement. Certain larger policies 
will be "retroceded" or "reassigned" in part back to the insurer 
by 
Company so as to avoid Company being exposed to liabilities in 
excess of those permitted by Arizona law.i^ 
Credit life and credit accident and health insurance is 
generally made available by banks and cither lenders and is designed 
to assure repayment of a loan in the event of death or disability 
o f a borrower. Applicant also proposes to underwrite joint credit 
!ife insurance. The Board has previously permitted such insurance 
to be underwritten when the credit extension was dependent upon 
the income of both the husband and wife.-?/ The Board finds that 
joint credit life insurance, like other forms of credit life insurance, 
is offered in connection with an extension of credit and is designed 
I? The maximum amounts which may be insured by a limited capital stock 
U f e insurance company under Arizona law are $3,000 on any one life and 
$5 ,000 on any total disability claim. 
2./ Application of Northwest Bancorporation to acquire Banco Credit 
Life Insurance Company (38 F.R. 14205). 

4403 
to assure repayment of an extension of credit in the event of death 
of a co-signer or co-maker of a note. Since each of the co-signers 
j 
or co-makers may be individually responsible for repayment of the credit 
e*tension, the Board finds insurance covering each to be directly 
related to an extension of credit. Accordingly, the Board has concluded 
fchat the sale and underwriting of joint credit life insurance is 
directly related to an extension of credit when both of the insured 
Parties are co-makers or co-signers of the note issued in connection 
with the extension of credit. 
In connection with its addition of credit life underwriting 
t o the list of permissible activities for bank holding companies 
the Board stated: 
To assure that engaging in the underwriting of credit 
life and credit accident and health insurance can 
reasonably be expected to be in the public interest, 
the Board will only approve applications in which 
an applicant demonstrates that approval will benefit 
the consumer or result in other public benefits. 
Normally such a showing would be made by a pro-
jected reduction in rates or increase in policy 
benefits due to bank holding company performance 
of this service. 
i | 
Applicant has stated that Company and the direct underwriter in Indiana 
I 
which issues the credit life and credit accident and health insurance 
Policies made available by Applicant's banking subsidiary will reduce the 
rates for credit life insurance and credit accident and health insurance 
by amounts ranging between 5 and 15 per cent depending upon tho specific 

-4-
4104 
coverage being offered. The Board believes the reduced cost of credit 
life and credit accident and health insurance is procorapetitive and is in 
the public interest. The Board concludes that such public benefits out-
weigh any possible adverse effects of approval of the application. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the 
, Public interest factors the Board is required to consider under 
§ 4(c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby 
approved. This determination is subject to the conditions set forth 
in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require 
8uch modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act 
and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
Prevent evasion thereof. 
The transaction shall be made not later than three 
months after the effective date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board of by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ effective November 12, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
-
^ir° t l n 8 f o r t h i B action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Sheehan. 

4105 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
11/12/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 27, 1973 
Gentlemen: 
Enclosed for your information is the Board Order approving 
the application of Irwin Union Corporation, Columbus, Indiana, to 
Engage <de novo in underwriting credit life and credit accident and 
health insurance. The scope of credit life underwriting approved 
in the Order is slightly broader than the Board has previously 
aPproved insofar as it relates to the underwriting of. joint credit 
life insurance coverage. Applications to expand the scope of your 
underwriting subsidiary's activities insofar as they relate to joinc 
credit life insurance may be filed pursuant to § 225.4(b)(1) of 
Regulation Y provided that the percentage decrease in rates proposed 
the joint credit life underwriting is the same percentage 
decrease(s) previously proposed and found by the B<>ard to be in 
• .^e public interest in approving your application to engage in 
credit life underwriting. 
In the event you do not presently offer joint credit life 
insurance and desire to underwrite such insurance, you may file an 
^Pplication pursuant to § 225.4(b)(1) if the proposed rates for such 
insurance are below the prima facie maximum rates permitted for joint 
Credit life coverage by the same percentages that the rates the Board 
found to be in the public interest in approving your application to 
engage in credit life underwriting are below the prima facie maximum 
rates for such coverage. 
Very truly yours, 
i f , 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

4106 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
11/12/73 
The Connecticut BancFederation, Inc. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
The Connecticut BancFederation, Inc., New Britain, Connecticut, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
through acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of: 
^ 
The Guaranty Bank & Trust Company, Hartford ("Guaranty Bank"); 2) 
Britain Bank and Trust Company, New Britain ("New Britain Bank"); 
a n d 3) Terryville Trust Company, Terryville ("Terryville Bank"), all 
located in Connecticut. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
^terested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
Vi*ws has expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
th* Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, a newly-formed corporation with no operating 
hi 
istory, was organized for the purpose of becoming a bank holding company, 
banks have aggregate deposits of $102.0 million, representing 1.6 
tor 
I-' 
cent of total deposits in commercial banks in Connecticut. 
Applicant 
W°uld become the twelfth largest banking organization in the State and 
W°uld hold 1.6 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
^ All banking data are as of December 31, 1972. 

4407 
-2-
New Britain Bank (deposits of $64.8 million) operates five 
offices in the Hew Britain Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area 
("SMSA") and two offices in the Hartford SMSA. Guaranty Bank (deposits 
°f $26.1 million) operates four offices, all in the Hartford SMSA. 
^he relevant geographic market in which the competitive effects of the 
^filiation of these two banks is to be adjudged is the Hartford-New 
Britain banking market approximated by the combined Hartford and New 
SMSAs. The two SMSAs are contiguous, and the central cities 
°f Hartford and New Britain are only ten miles apart. Census Bureau 
d*ta indicate that approximately 22 per cent of the resident labor 
of New Britain commutes to the city of Hartford and seven towns 
Grounding 
Hartford. 
The Hartford-New Britain banking market is highly concentrated, 
^ e two largest of 24 banks therein holding 41 per cent and 37 per cent 
°f market deposits respectively. The third, fourth, and sixth largest 
k^nks in the market are subsidiaries of the same bank holding company 
^hich thereby controls eight per cent of market deposits. New Britain 
^atik is the fifth largest bank in the market holding three per cent of 
^rket deposits, and Guaranty Bank, holding one per cent of deposits 
^ the market ranks as the tenth largest bank in the market. Applicant 
become the fourth largest banking organization in the market with 
^Proximately 4 per cent of market deposits. Applicant would not 

4108 
-3-
thereby control an undue percentage of the Ilartford-New Britain market, 
would consummation of the proposed transaction result in a significant 
^crease in the concentration of firms in that market. 
Although the closest offices of New Britain Bank and Guaranty 
Bat*k are only six miles apart, their service areas overlap only in the 
town of Newington (population of 26,037, according to 1970 Census of 
SSfiulation). Guaranty Bank does not have an office in Newington, while 
Britain Bank does maintain an office there, which office competes 
^th the offices of three commercial banks, two mutual savings banks, 
and a savings and loan association. A fourth thrift institution has 
teeently been approved in Newington. It appears that reasonable banking 
alternatives would be available to the Newington community even if 
^Petition were eliminated between New Britain Bank and Guaranty Bank. 
Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction would 
n o t have a significant adverse effect on existing competition in the 
Ha*tford-New Britain market. 
Terryville Bank (deposits of $11.1 million) operates two 
offices, both located in the town of Plymouth, in the Bristol SMSA, the 
Levant banking market in which the competitive effects of the acquisition 
b y Appiicant are considered. It is the third largest of four banks in 
market and holds approximately 20 per cent of deposits in the market, 
^though the Bristol SMSA is contiguous to the Hartford and New Britain 
SJlSAs and although an office of Terryville Bank is located only 
1 5 miles from the nearest office of New Britain Bank and 20 miles from 

4409 
-4-
t h e n e a r est office of Guaranty Bank, there is little existing competition 
between Terryville Bank on the one hand and New Britain Bank or Guaranty 
Bank on the other. Neither New Britain Bank nor Guaranty Bank derives 
m°*e than 1 per cent of its other banking business from the Bristol SMSA; 
and Terryville Bank does not derive more than 1 per cent of its demand 
dePosits, nor more than 3 per cent of its other banking business, from 
e service areas of New Britain Bank and Guaranty Bank. 
The law of the State of Connecticut permits commercial banks to 
establish branch offices at any location in the State except in towns 
in 
n which a commercial bank is headquartered. Although there are "open" 
Nations in the service areas of the banks that are the subject of 
t h e instant application, it appears that New Britain Bank is the only 
n e of the three banks that has the resources to pursue an expansionary 
br 
Aching policy into the service areas of the other two banks. However, 
the 
e towns around Hartford that are not subject to "home office protection" 
ai?e heavily banked, and New Britain Bank, having recently closed a branch 
f i 
C e after five years of unprofitable operations at that branch, is not 
0l*sidered likely to pursue an aggressive branching policy in the near 
futur 
e« Consummation of the proposed transactions is unlikely to adversely 
e c t potential competition. 
Hartford National Corporation, a bank holding company 
r°lling the largest bank in the Hartford-New Britain market, has 
^ected to the form of the instant proposal and has urged the Board 

_ 4 1 1 0 
-6-
to restructure the proposal, apparently by requiring a merger of New 
Britain Bank and Terryville Bank into Guaranty Bank, in order to remove 
the "home office protection" granted by State law to the Plymouth community 
arid to assist in the removal of such protection from the city of New 
Britain. Hartford National Corporation notes that State law effectively 
Prohibits its banking subsidiary from establishing a branch facility in 
New Britain, but recognizes that it may lawfully form a new bank in 
Britain. 
Applicant has vigorously opposed the suggestion of Hartford 
National 
Corporation stressing the affirmatively procompetitive effect 
the instant proposal, as a means, in effeet,to deconcentrate the 
^rtford-New Britain market. Applicant contends that the proposal would 
b e Jeopardized, and the procompetitive effect thereby lost, if New Britain 
and Terryville Bank are required to merge out of existence. As 
a Matter of policy, the Board opposes "home office protection" 
statutes as devices to protect a favored few from the rigors of fair 
c 
2/ 
°mPetition, and, where an application has presented significant adverse 
3/ See Order of January 19, 1973 approving acquisition of bank by CBT 
a°rPoration, Fed. Res. Bulletin 111, 112 (February, 1973); See Statement 
ccompanying Order of July 29, 1971 denying acquisition of bank by Midlantic 
p
a£ks> Inc.,57 Fed Res. Bulletin 684, 686(August 1971); and Order of 
uary ^ » ^ 1 2 approving acquisition of bank by United Jersey Banks 
gjd. R C S. Bulletin 296 (March, 1972). 

4411 
-6-
competitive effects, or where an Applicant has recognized the wisdom 
of free competition and has voluntarily taken steps that would result in 
removal of "home office protection", that removal has been considered 
3/ 
a Procompetitive consideration and a public benefit. 
However, where, 
a s here, an application presents net procompetitive effects, the Board 
ft! 
has not conditioned its approval upon removal of "home office protection", 
the Board will not do so in this case. 
The financial conditions of Applicant and its proposed subsidiary 
banks are generally satisfactory. Management of all three banks is 
§enerally considered good, and consummation of the proposed transaction 
should provide greater managerial depth to the banks. Prospects for 
all 
* are generally favorable in view of Applicant's intention to strengthen 
at*d develop the banking operations and services of its subsidiary banks. 
Accordingly, banking factors weigh in favor of approval of the application. 
-^Oee Statement accompanying Order of February 7, 1972 approving 
Scrim • 
r 
-- 
' > 
' ^ rr 
o 
2 8 8 7 
i 0 n ° f b a n k b y M l d l a n t i c Banks, Inc., 58 Fed. Res. Bulletin 286, 287-
(March, 1972); Statement accompanying Order of April 7, 1972 approving 
(ife 
0 n ° f b a n k b y M i d l a n t i c Banks, Inc., 58 Fed. Res. Bulletin 475, 477 
Uni^' l 9 7 2); Order of February 17, 1972 approving acquisition of bank by 
Jan 
J e r s e y B a n k s» 5 8 Fed. Res. Bulletin 296 (March, 1972); and Order of 
Bui'llary 1 9' 1 9 7 3 approving acquisition of bank by CBT Corporation, Fed. Res, 
^yii^tin 111, 112 (February, 1973). 
by p 
S t a t e m e n t accompanying Order of April 17, 1970.approving application 
p6d
 i r s t Connecticut Bancorp, Inc. to become a bank holding company, 56 
S^M^gs.. Bulletin 452 (May, 1970). That decision is uniquely "on all fours" 
c0m
 
t*ie instant application having been found to present the same pro-
m a r ? e t i t i v e effects in what has become the Hartford-New Britain banking 
e t that the Board finds are presented by the instant application. 
/ 

„. 4412 
-7-
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served also favor approval. There is no evidence that 
the banking needs of the communities to be served are not being adequately 
met. Nevertheless, consummation of the proposed transaction is expected 
to enable Guaranty Bank and Terryville Bank to expand their trust and 
electronic data processing services and to offer credit card programs 
to their customers. Combined programs for electronic data processing, 
investment, personnel, and auditing should improve the quality of services 
that the banks presently offer. Host importantly, it is expected that 
the convenience and needs of residents of the Hartford-New Britain banking 
^rket, presently dominated by two banks, will be promoted by the positive 
competitive effect that the formation of this new bank holding company 
is expected to have in that market. It is the Board's judgment that the 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) 
Iater than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective November 16, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
iTvSting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
Srinmer , Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

4413 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
11/12/73 
COMMONWEALTH NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Commonwealth National Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire up to 100 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of Town Bank and Trust Company, Brookline, Massachusetts 
("Town Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Pe*sons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) Qf th e A C t > 
The time for filing comments and views has 
exPired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
deceived in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
( 1 2 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the 22nd largest commercial banking organization 
i n Massachusetts, controls one bank, Commonwealth Bank and Trust Company 
('Commonwealth Bank"), with deposits of about $45 million, representing 
^Proximately .3 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the 
S t a t e*i/ Town Bank ($13.8 million in deposits) accounts for less 
tllan .1 p e r c e n t Qf total Statewide commercial bank deposits. Con-
tinuation of the transaction would not result In a significant 
U r e a s e in the concentration of banking resources in Massachusetts. 
P^STbanking dataware as of December 31, 1972, unless otherwise 
Xr*dicated, and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions 
aPProved by the Board through September 30, 1973. 

4414 
-2-
Town Bank is the 46th largest commercial banking organization 
i n the Boston banking market (approximated by the Boston SMSA)2/ and 
c°ntrols about .1 per cent of total market deposits.3/ Applicant's 
P^sent banking subsidiary, Commonwealth Bank, with six banking 
offices in Suffolk County, controls .5 per cent of commercial bank 
deposits in the Boston banking market and is the 19th largest commercial 
banking organization in that market. Town Bank's two offices are 
located in Norfolk County. 
There are a total of 59 commercial banking organizations, 
°Pcrating 463 offices, which compete in the Boston banking market. 
Boston market has a high level of deposit concentration, as the 
five largest commercial banking organizations - which are also the 
five largest in the State - control in excess of 80 per cent of market 
dePosits.4/ Acquisition of Town Bank would increase Applicant's share 
°f market deposits by only .1 per cent. Moreover, a large number of 
S m a U banks would remain available for acquisition. 
Commonwealth Bank is located in the city of Boston in Suffolk 
County} while Town Bank is located in the town of Brookline in Norfolk 
County, Under Massachusetts law, neither bank may branch into the 
°ther's home office town. While the service areas of the two banks 
the amount of existing competition between the two institutions 
The Boston SMSA encompasses all of Suffolk County and portions of 
Middlesex, Norfolk, and Plymouth Counties. 
y. 
market data are as of June 30, 1972. 
<•' Excluded from this market share determination are deposits held by 
mutual savings banks which approximate $10.4 billion (as of June 30, 1972). 

4415 
-3-
is not regarded as substantial. Neither bank does substantial business 
throughout the entire Boston SMSA and the present degree of competition 
between Town Bank and Commonwealth Bank is tempered by the existence 
o f intervening banks and numerous banking alternatives. Located 
in Town Bank's primary service area are a number of other commercial 
banks; thus, other banking alternatives would remain to the community 
served by Town Bank. Further, in view of T o m Bank's position in its 
service area, Applicant's acquisition would probably increase its com-
petitive effectiveness. Also, it does not appear likely Applicant 
v°uld enter Norfolk County de novo, in view of its limited financial 
tesources. Accordingly, competitive considerations are consistent 
w i th approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant and Town Bank are satisfactory in light of Applicant's 
intent to reduce part of its acquisition debt by means of a public 
offering. therefore, banking factors are consistent with approval of the 
aPPlication. Although there is no evidence in the record to indicate 
that the banking needs of the area are currently not being satisfied 
b y listing financial institutions, Applicant proposes to make trust 
and computer services available to Town Bank's customers. In addition, 
applicant will seek to shift Bank's loan portfolio away from participa-
n t s to more direct lending. Thus, considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served lend slight 

14416 
Weight toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation 
o f the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
Applicant owns a nonbanking subsidiary, Combank Corporation, 
acquired October 14, 1969, which engages in mortgage lending. Neither 
Tn 
^ Bank nor Combank Corporation are significant competitors in the 
B°ston mortgage lending market. Accordingly, it is the Board's conclusion 
tllat approval would not adversely affect competition in mortgage lend-
i n8 in the Boston area. 
Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities remain subject 
to Ttr\ 
Board review, and the Board retains the authority to require 
applicant to modify or terminate its nonbanking activities or hold-
irig8 4 f , 
the Board at any time determines that the combination of 
Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities is likely to have 
adverse effects on the public interest. 
Accordingly, on the basis of the record, the application 
is approved for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall 
n o t be made (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
af t- r the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
^tsuant to delegated authority. 
_ 
By order of the Board of Governors,5/ effective November 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
t^EAL] 
Secretary of the Board 
Ty 
, 
g-' Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
heehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
0Vernor Daane. 

4417 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
11/12/73 
INDIAN HEAD BANKS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Indian Head Banks, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342 
to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Keene 
National Bank, Keene, New Hampshire ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and 
V i e w s has expired and none has been timely received. The Board has 
> 
considered the application in light of the fetors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls eight banks with aggregate deposits of 
aPProximately $199 million, representing 15.2 per cent of total 
dePosits in commercial banks in New Hampshire and is the only multi-
*>ank holding company and the largest banking organization in the 
State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect 
hiding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
through September 30, 1973.) The acquisition of Bank ($17 million 
^Posits) would Increase Applicant's share of State deposits by 1.3 
Percentage points. 

4418 
-2-
Bank is the third largest of the four commercial banks 
located in the Cheshire County banking market. It holds 28.7 per cent 
o f total market deposits, and the largest and second largest banks 
h o ld 35 per cent and 28.8 per cent, respectively, of such total 
dePosits. Four savings banks hold 89 per cent of the market's IPC 
f* *t 
me and savings deposits. Only 17 per cent of Bank's total deposits 
a r e time and savings accounts, and Bank is not a major competitor 
for 
r these deposits. However, Bank has the largest volume of IPC 
de"iand deposit accounts in the market. 
Applicant does not operate in the Cheshire County Banking 
market 
J 
and its closest subsidiary bank is located approximately 33 
m U e S G a s t o f K e e n e in Hillsboro County. Only a small amount of demand 
n d savings deposits and loans is derived by Applicant's subsidiary 
of f l c e 
s from the Cheshire County market, and Bank derives no loans or 
eP°sits from any of the areas served by Applicant's banking offices. 
aPPears that no significant amount of present competition would be 
l l m l n a t e d by t h i8 proposal, and in view of the distances separating 
Bank a 
n d Applicant's nearest bank and State laws restricting branch-
ing 
j L appears unlikely that any meaningful competition would 
eVelop between the offices served by Applicant and Bank in the 
future 
T*. 
• it is the Board's opinion that the acquisition of Bank by 
^Pplica 
w o u l d have no adverse effect on existing or potential com-
P® tl t-4 
a n d would not tend to create a monopoly or in any manner 
be J -
restraint of trade in the relevant areas. 

4419 
-3-
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant 
a n d its present subsidiaries are considered to be satisfactory in view 
Appitcantis commitment to .increase the capital position of one of 
l C s subsidiaries• These same conditions are also deemed satisfactory 
a a Pertains to Bank, and prospects for each appear favorable. Considera-
tions relating to banking factors lend some support for approval since 
has need of the managerial resources available through Applicants 
^stem. 
Although there is no evidence that the major banking needs of 
the 
e area are not presently served, Bank proposes to offer new and expanded 
8ervices to the communities, including dealer floor planning, indirect 
deal 
automobile financing and accounts receivable financing, expanded 
tri 
a t services, portfolio management and computer services. The affi-
l l a t i o n v°uld also increase the availability of credit in the area 
through Bank's increased loan participation capability. Considerations 
re*ating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
A v* e consistent with and lend some support to approval of the applica-
£ J 
°n* 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
tf 
ansaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
8ho«ld be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above* The acquisition shall not be made 
^ 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 

4420 
-4-
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
o r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 12, 1973, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors 
Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 

4421 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 
32 
11/12/73 
HERITAGE BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Heritage Bancorporation, Cherry Hill, New Jersey, a bank holding 
c°®pany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
t h e B°ard's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
aCfluire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the 
Succes8or by merger to First Charter National Bank, Monroe Township, New 
J e r s eV ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no signifi-
Cance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares 
Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
Or8ani2ation is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of 
Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
none has been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
in i 
U8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the seventh largest banking organization in New Jersey, 
ptesently controls two banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $622 
i0t*> representing 3.2 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
in th 
une State. 
Acquisition of Bank (approximately $129 million in deposits) 
increase Applicant's share of State deposits by less than 1 per cent 
nci *ould not result in a significant increase in the concentration of 
^anki 
resources in New Jersey. 
^ 
All~banking data are as of June 30, 1973, unless otherwise noted. 

2-
4 ' 1 2 2 
Bank is the second largest of 21 banking organizations in the 
N e w Brunswick banking market which is the relevant market (approximated 
by -i 
i 
o a t of Middlesex County, the eastern third of Somerset County, and 
the Northern tip of Monmouth County), and controls deposits of $113.6 
i lUon, representing 12.1 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
in 
y 
tlle market. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank closest to Bank is located 
about 17 4 1 
Wiles away, In a separate banking market, and no meaningful present 
^Petition exists between either of Applicant's subsidiary banks and 
Bank. 
Although Applicant could enter the market de novo, or through 
acquisition of a smaller bank, or by branching, Applicant's acquisi-
tion of » 
Bank would not have a substantially adverse effect on potential 
CoiaPetin 
J->-ion because consummation of the proposal would not result in 
^Ppii 
» 
cant's gaining a dominant share of the market's bapking resources, 
woulri 4 
U A« it appear to foreclose the entry of other banking organizations 
lnt° thi 
is market. Recent changes in New Jersey's banking statutes now 
aUov c 
°nanercial banks to branch Statewide, and there are a substantial 
u r banking organizations in the State which could be considered 
a l entrants. Accordingly, the Board concludes that competitive con-
ions are consistent with approval of the application. 
H*nk 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
* and of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks are regarded as 
8atlsfacf 
cory» particularly in view of Applicant's commitment to increase 
V k » 8 
^ n t 
CaPital. Considerations relating to the banking factors are con-
w*th approval of the application. Although there is no evidence 

4423 
-3-
in the record to indicate that the banking needs of the residents of the 
immunities served by Bank are not currently being met, Applicant's acquisi-
L J 
will enable Bank to extend maturities on mortgage loans, increase 
Baujr t 
s customer lending limit, and participate in loans with Applicant's 
subsidiaries. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
of 
communities to be served lend some weight toward approval of the 
pPlication. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 
D e in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
e a S o n s summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) 
bfcfgj. the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
o r (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
ess 
8 8 such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
e r al Reserve Bank of Philadelphia pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 12, 1973. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
n^han" 8 f° r t h l s a c t i o n : 
v i c e Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
^ern^* B u cher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Bums and 
V e t t u* Daane. 

4424 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
11/12/73 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Fitton Insurance Agency, Inc. 
Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
o f the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of The 
Fitton Insurance Agency, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia ("Agency") and thereby 
to 
engage in insurance agency activities. Certain insurance agency activi-
t i e s have been determined by the Board to be closely related to banking 
(12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been duly published (38 Federal 
Re 
1/ 
Sister 9 1 6 ) T h e time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
th 
e Board has considered all comments received in light of the public 
1 
2/ 
nterest factors set forth in § 4(c)(8) of the Act.-
published notice of this application included notice of a related 
Plication to acquire The Fitton Company, Alexandria, Virginia. When the 
to i? n a l Association of Insurance Agents, Inc. and related parties objected 
the proposed acquisition of Agency and requested a hearing thereon, Appli-
^ n t requested separate consideration of the two applications to avoid delay 
^ Board consideration of the application to acquire The Fitton Company. The 
announced approval of the acquisition of The Fitton Company on April 23, 
2
 73 (38 Federal Register 10675). 
nL 
National Association of Insurance Agents, Inc. and related parties 
QI . 
"aLiuuai ftaautxdvxuu ui mouiaLii-c "&1-11i 
• a»u •»• 
>
-
— w 
197 C t e d t o approval o f t h i s application and by petition dated January 22, 
3» requested that a hearing be held upon the application. On March 6, 19 
e Board directed that a hearing be held on this application, among others. 
e Administrative Law Judge designated to conduct the proceedings upon the 
^Plication scheduled a hearing thereon. Subsequently, the objectors to the 
ob? l i C a t i o n a n d Applicant reached agreement among themselves whereby the 
beJKCti°ns t o t h e application were withdrawn and whereby Applicant agreed to 
. 
bound by the final outcome of other specified applications to engage in 
France agency activities. On May 23, 1973, the Administrative Law Judge 
b pissed the application from *ha hearing docket and referred the application 
a c k to the Board. 

4425 
-2-
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization in Virginia, 
c°ntrols nine banks with aggregate deposits of $840 million, representing 
per cent of commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data 
a r e as of June 30, 1973, adjusted to reflect bank holding company forma-
t i 0 n s a nd acquisitions approved through September 30, 1973.) Applicant's 
Principal nonbanking subsidiaries consist of a service company, a bank 
Premises company, a second mortgage corporation and a leasing corporation. 
In Edition, Applicant earlier this year received Board approval to acquire 
The 
e Fitton Company, Alexandria, Virginia ("Company"), which engages indirectly 
°ugh its subsidiaries in mortgage lending and related data processing 
a c tivities. 
Agency was established in 1961 by Company's former controlling 
^areholders to operate in connection with Company's mortgage lending 
ctivitieS; and Agency's sole office is at the same address as is Company, 
Alexandria, Virginia. For the nine-month period ending August 31, 1972, 
^Ppli 
Cant had gross commission income of $83 thousand. Approximately $49 
Usand of this commission income resulted from the sale of declining 
Covers 
age term life insurance policies where the coverage was equal to the 
o u t e j . anding balance of the mortgage held or serviced by Company, the sale 
of 
Ccldent and health insurance policies where the coverage was equal to 
^he m°nthly mortgage payment of an outstanding mortgage held or serviced 
by p 
°mPany, and the sale of homeowners' insurance policies and fire and 
fcjcte 
nded coverage policies where the primary coverage of the policy protects 
ateral which formed the basis for an extension of credit by Company or 

4426 
-3-
Secures a mortgage serviced by Company. Thus, approximately 60 per cent 
Agency's gross commission income appears to be directly related to an 
extension of credit by Company or directly related to the provision of 
°ther financial services by Company. Applicant states that the remaining 
insurance sales relate to persons to whom it had extended credit in the 
P a s t or with whom a special relationship exists. 
It appears that a substantial portion (approximately 40 per cent) 
Agency' 
the 
Agency's business is not directly related to an extension of credit or 
0f Appu 
Provision of financial services by Company or by any other subsidiary 
cant. The Board has indicated that the "convenience" provision of 
§ 5 0 c 
°*4(a) (g) (ii) ( c) i s not designed to permit entry into the general insurance 
&ency business. In order to assure that Agency is not operated as a general 
S U r a n c e agency, approval of the proposed acquisition is conditioned upon 
Lion of that portion of Agency's premium income which is not directly 
lated to an extension of credit by Company or directly related to the pro-
vision ^ 
°t other financial services by Company to less than 5 per cent of the 
a8grei 
-gate premium income of Agency sold pursuant to § 225.4(a)(9)(ii) of 
thr 
^ t i o n Y. Although Applicant engages in certain insurance activities 
°ugh a number of its existing subsidiaries, approval of the proposed 
^uisition would not eliminate any significant existing competition between 
^PPli 
t 
cant's subsidiaries and Agency because of the limited nature of the 
Pective insurance activities. Nor does it appear that affiliation of 
^ ncV with Applicant would adversely affect the numerous existing competitors 
tVi 
e Washington, D. C. metropolitan area where Company and Agency are 

4427 
-3-
en8aged i n business. It is anticipated that the sale of insurance by 
Agency will provide a convenient alternative source of insurance agency 
8®rvlces for customers of Company. There is no evidence in the record 
^dicating that consummation of the proposed transaction would result in 
a U y Undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, conflicts of 
interest, unsound banking practices, or other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
actors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
Ac 
accordingly, the application is hereby approved conditioned upon the reduction 
0 f Agency's premium income which is not directly related to an extension of 
re<Ut by Company or directly related to the provision of other financial 
servi 
^-ces by Company to less than 5 per cent of the aggregate premium income 
0f Agency sold pursuant to § 225.4(a)(9)(ii) of Regulation Y and that such 
A c t i o n be accomplished within two years from the effective date of this 
e r' This determination is also subject to the conditions set forth in 
5 225. 4(c) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.4(c)) and to the Board's authority 
reqUire g u c h modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
°mPany or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure 
°mPliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regu-
at i 
°as and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. The 
anSaction shall be made not later than three months after the effective 

4428 
-5-
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 12, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
heehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Daane. 

4129 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
11/12/73 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to 
acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Peoples National 
Bat*> Naples, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Pefsona to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
n°ne has been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
l n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Florida, controls 
2 3 banks with aggregate deposits of about $1.6 billion, which represents 
aPproximately 8.3 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in Florida. 
Summation of the proposed acquisition of Bank, with deposits of about 
million, would neither significantly increase Applicant's share of 
commercial 
bank deposits in Florida nor result in any significant increase 
concentration of banking resources in any section of the State. 
Bank controls about 7 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
banks i n the Naples banking market (approximated by Collier County, Florida, 
•jT-r-—— 
fiai>king data are as of December 31, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding 
Pany acquisitions and formations approved through August 7, 1973. 

-2-
4430 
excluding the town of Immokalee), and is the fifth largest of six commercial 
banks, and the third of four banking organizations in said market. Applicant's 
barest subsidiary bank, the Peoples Bank of Venice, is located about 
80 
miles north of Bank. There is no meaningful competition between Bank 
a^d any of Applicant's present or proposed banking subsidiaries; nor does 
l t appear likely that such competition will develop in the future in light 
o f the distances involved and Florida's restrictive branching laws. More-
0 V e r> since Applicant, through Bank, would compete in the Naples market 
two banks that are more than four times the size of Bank, and a third 
al®ost twice its size, consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
enable Applicant to dominate that banking market. Accordingly, the Board 
includes that consummation of the proposed transaction would not adversely 
affect competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
PPlicant and its present subsidiary banks are generally satisfactory; 
a n d future prospects of Bank are considered favorable. Considerations 
® t o t h e convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
e n d some weight toward approval, since Applicant will apply its expertise 
resources to assist Bank to create and staff a trust facility which 
Provide an alternative source of trust services in the Naples banking 
market 
• It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition is in 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 

4131 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
fche reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made 
( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
B°ard, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective November 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
G°vernor Daane. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 
11/12/73 
DAWSON CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Engaging De Novo in Insurance Agency Activities 
Dawson Corporation, Lexington, Nebraska, has applied for 
t H e B o a r d's approval under section 3(a)(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through acquisi-
tl°n of 83.3 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Farmers 
S t a te Bank, Lexington, Nebraska ("Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's 
aPProval under section 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) 
^ tlcj A 
» 225.4(b)(1) of the Board's Regulation Y to engage de novo, 
a t the offices of Bank in Lexington, Nebraska, in the sale of 
re<Ht 
a n d c r e d i t accident and health insurance directly 
e l a t e d t 0 extensions of credit by Bank. Such activities have 
G n determined by the Board to be closely related to the business 
0 f inking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)). 
Notice of receipt of these applications was published 
t h e Federal Register on June 19, 1973 (38 Federal Register 
l 5 " 5 ) and on August 24, 1973 (38 Federal Register 22827). The 
^°ard h 
"as considered the applications and all comments received 
lj-ght of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act 
(12 u « . 
•&.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified in section 
4 ( C ) « > of the Act. 

-2-
4133 
Applicant is a Nebraska corporation organized for the purpose 
o f becoming a bank holding company through acquisition of Bank. Applicant's 
, 
majority shareholder, who will continue in control of Applicant after con-
summation of the proposed transaction, now owns all of the shares of Bank 
j 
which Applicant proposes to acquire. The proposed transaction involves 
, 
e transfer of these shares to Applicant and Applicant's assumption 
o f debt arising from the transferor's purchase of such shares. Accordingly, 
th 
e Proposed acquisition involves essentially a change from individual 
t o corporate ownership. 
Bank, with deposits of $9.8 million, is the smaller of two banks 
i n Lexington and the fifth largest of nine commercial banks in the Dawson 
Cou 
1/ 
n ty banking market (approximated by Dawson County, Nebraska).- 
Applicant, 
thrOugh Bank, would control about 13.8 per cent of total deposits in com-
mercial banks in Dawson County and only an insignificant percentage of all 
8U°h deposits in the State. Due to the nature of the proposed transaction 
s 
and J 
3ince Applicant has no operating history, consummation of said trans-
ction will not adversely affect commercial banking competition in any 
Levant area. 
i 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
f APplicant and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval, 
Alfck 
enough Applicant 
will assume the debt incurred by its principal organizer 
, 
1 acquiring control of Bank, it appears that such debt can be adequately 
erviced without placing an undue strain on Bank's resources. Bank is 
y Dat a as of December 31, 1972. 

44; 
-3-
adequately capitalized at present and, it appears, will continue to 
be adequately capitalized throughout the period of debt amortization. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest and that the application to acquire Bank should be approved. 
Due to the limited character of Applicant's proposed insurance 
activities, and the fact that such activities will commence de novo, 
n° adverse competitive effects would result from approval of the 
^(c)(8) application. Moreover, there is no evidence in the record 
indicating that consummation of the proposal would result in any 
U n d u e concentration of resources, unfair competition, conflicts of 
interest, unsound banking practices, or other consequences adverse to 
tlle Public interest. Approval would permit Applicant to offer Bank's 
Cu8tomers a convenient source of credit-related insurance. Based on 
tlle foregoing and other considerations reflected in the record, the 
B° a r d h as determined that the balance of the public interest factors 
B°ard is required to consider regarding the proposal to sell credit-
teiated insurance is favorable and that the application should be approved. 
During the course of its consideration of this application, 
Board received one adverse comment protesting Applicant's 
Pt°Posed insurance activities and requesting a hearing. 
Protestant 
argued, among other things, that the proposed activities described 

4435 
-4-
in Applicant»g submissions to the Board might not be among those 
w*Uch the Board has determined to be so closely related to banking 
° r m a n aging or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. 
Applicant's response to said protest indicated that the proposed 
insurance activities would consist exclusively of "the sale of credit 
Xif e and credit accident and health insurance directly related to 
a n extension of credit by Farmers State Bank, Lexington, Nebraska." 
Aft-er notice of Applicant's response, Protestant withdrew its opposition 
t o the appii c a t i o n and its request for a hearing. 
On the basis of the record, the applications to acquire Bank 
to engage in insurance agency activities are approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The acquisition of Bank shall not be made 
ef°re the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order* 
> and neither the acquisition of Bank nor the commencement of 
i nSur a n c G activities shall occur later than three months after the 
ffective date of this Order. However, such periods may be extended 
0 r good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
lty* The determination as to the insurance agency activities is 
ubject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y 
and to M, 
n 
tne Board s authority to require such modification or termi-
nation °f the activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries 

4136 
-6-
a s the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions 
a n d purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued 
thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,~ effective November 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
•j/Joting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
eehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
P e r n o r Daane. 

4137 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 10 
11/12/73 
FROSTBANK CORPORATION 
Order Approving the Retention of the Assets of Data Processing Center 
FrostBank Corporation (formerly Frost Realty Company), San Antonio, 
T 
exas> a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t ("Act"), has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the 
Act-t and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to retain the assets 
of Data Processing Center, San Antonio, Texas, ("Data Center") an operating 
Vision of Applicant's wholly-owned subsidiary, Main Plaza Corporation, 
Sa 
n Antonio, Texas ("Main Plaza"). The activities of Data Center consist of 
Per£orming data processing services for Applicant, its subsidiaries and other 
Usiness enterprises. Such activities have been determined by the Board 
t0 be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(8)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Per sons to submit comments and views on the public' interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 23989) . The time for filing 
0nUnents and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, the ninth largest multi-bank holding company in 
Te*. 
1/ 
8> controls two banks 
with aggregate deposits of $519 million, 
resenting 1.5 per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in 
s( 'applicant, in addition to these two banks, owns 20.6 per cent of Texas 
$an ® fiank, San Antonio, Texas, and 24.9 per cent of Harlandale State Bank, 
App]?ntonio, Texas. Both of the interests are subject to divestiture by 
•2/ * C a n t b y M a y 1> 1 9 7 5» pursuant to the Board's Order of March 21, 1973. 
ac 
banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect holding company 
sitions and formations approved by the Board through September 10, 1973. 

4438 
-2-
Applicant's lead bank performs data processing services of 
inking nature such as demand deposits, time and savings deposits and loan 
Cc°unting for its internal operations and for other banks. Data Center 
rforms data processing services of an accounting nature, such as payroll, 
c°unts payable and inventory control for banks and other business enter-
es* Applicant's banking subsidiaries accounted for 57 per cent of Data 
Center' o 
c a total billing for 1972. Within the relevant market, which is 
PPfoximated by the San Antonio SMSA, Data Center competes with 27 other 
dfi t 
Processing companies. In view of the distinct types of services pro-
vided bv A 
°y Applicant's lead bank and Data Center, as well as the large number 
c°TOpetitors i n t*ie market, it does not appear that the retention of Data 
t e r W o uld have an adverse effect on either existing or potential com-
0I*. Nor is there any evidence in the record indicating that the re-
lation 
Data Center would lead to an undue concentration of resources, 
c t s 
interest, or unsound banking practices. On the other hand, 
aPprovai e , 
the application should enable Data Center to remain a viable 
Co®petit-
—v-xcor in serving the data processing needs of the community. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest. c 
L factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
fav0rab 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
ermination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of 
H u i a t J i on Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
the 
°t t 
er*ination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 

4439 
-3-
Subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
pr°visions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 12, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEAL] 
— 
for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
atid p n > ®ucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
G°vernor Daane. 

4410 
E1DARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 11 
11/12/73 
A D D R E S S 
O f F I C I A L 
C a S R E S P U N n C N R E 
t o 
t h e ; 
b o a r d 
November 12, 1973 
Board of Directors 
kong island Trust Company 
Garden City, New York 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $4,000,000 in 
Subordinated capital notes by Long Island Trust Company, Garden 
City, New York, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York. This approval is given on the condition that, aside 
from required annual prepayments to begin in 1981, the capital 
notes cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity without 
the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is granted with 
the understanding that the sale of the capital notes will be 
consummated within six months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

t-iiIH.il/ 
4141 
B O A R D OF 
G D V E R N D R B 
• • 
nr THE 
Item No. 12 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/12/73 
• ... • A 
> 
i X v ' i J S — . 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
a o d r c h s orrici/.u 
c d r r c s p d n o e n c e 
T U 
T H C 
B D A U D 
November 15, 1973 
Andrew A. Normandeau, Esq. 
Ragan & Ma son 
The Farragut Building 
500 Seventeenth Street, N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20006 
Dear Mr. Normandeau: 
In your letters of October 18 and November 2, 1973, you 
ask that the Board review the position taken by Mr. Schoedcl of its 
staff i u a letter of; September 18 to Mr. John Mooney, of the staff 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
A letter of November 2 
from Mr. Jack Redden, counsel to Crubb 
Ellis Co., a registered 
broker/dealer of Oakland, California, makes the same request. 
The Board's staff letter took the position that section 
220.7(a) of the Board's Regulation T would forbid a broker/dealer 
to sell I-he condominiums being offered by Organizacion Ideal, S.A. 
de c.V 
(Applicant). 
Your letters urge that the offering is covered 
by an exception described in a letter interpretation by the Board or 
May 25, 1971. 
The Board's 1971 interpretation concluded that a 
broker/dealer would not be deemed to be arranging for credit to 
Purchase or carry a security if he sold an investment contract 
covering a citrus grove tract secured by a real estate mortgage, 
even though the purchaser was also offered an optional separate^ 
arrangement for maintaining the grove and for marketing the fruit. 
T h e Board's letter set forth as material to its consideration that 
the purchaser received "a deed covering the specific acreage", that 
the credit offered was extended solely in connection with the sale 
of real estate, that the purchaser had a genuine choice whether or 
not to enter the maintenance and marketing agreement and that no 
other credit was extended or arranged in connection with the invest-
ment contract. 

4442 
Andrew A. Normandeau, Esq. 
- 
2 
-
Applicant's condominiums are situated in Acapulco, Mexico. 
Because Mexican law does not permit a non-Mexican to own land within 
the coastal (".prohibited") zone, purchasers (other than Mexicans) 
Vould obtain a beneficial interest in a trust. The trust has a 30-
year lease on the condominium building. At the end of 30 years, 
Mexican law requires that the property be sold to a Mexican, although 
the beneficial interest can be transferred meanwhile to any acceptable 
purchaser. Purchasers may elect whether or not to enter the individual, 
non-pooling rental program being offered by Applicant. If they elect 
to enter the program, they must either purchase the furniture offered 
in a package by Applicant or supply an "acceptable" package (Mexican 
law does not permit the purchaser to import furniture into Mexico). 
The prospectus discloses that as an incident to the sale 
purchasers may obtain financing on the interest in the trust and on 
the furniture package through U. S. affiliates of Applicant. 
Because 
of the high rates-of interest charged by local lenders, the prospectus 
alleges, it is not practical for purchasers to finance such purchases 
in Mexico. 
Your letter of October 18 states that "in the event the Board 
determines that the presence of the financing on the furniture package 
is fatal to a favorable resolution of this problem, the Issuer woulu 
reluctantly abandon such financing on the furniture. 
The Board has carefully reviewed this matter, including your 
statements concerning reliance by Applicant's counsel upon the Board s ^ 
letter interpretation of May 25, 1971. While the Board was not prepared 
to determine that the offering in question was governed by the exception 
described in that letter interpretation, the Board did conclude, m 
light of all of the circumstances of the particular case, and on the 
assumption that financing will not be offered on the furniture package, 
that it would not recommend enforcement action to the Division ot _ 
Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission if the offering 
v is allowed to proceed in other respects as described in the effective 
prospectus. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
