MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 17, 1973 

4 8 9 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, December 17, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Broida, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Altmann, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Gramley, Deputy Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 2/ 
Consent calendar. Pursuant to the recommendation of the Legal 
Division in a memorandum dated December 5, 1973, the Board unanimously 
approved a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City concluding 
that Second Evergreen Corporation, Lincoln, Nebraska, does not come 
within the provision of the Bank Holding Company Act exempting a family 
1/ Entered meeting and withdrew at points indicated in minutes. 
2/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4 8 9 8 
12/17/73 
- 2 -
holding company from the prohibitions of section 4 of the Act relating 
to nonbank activities and shares. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Capital 
National Corporation, Houston, Texas, to merge with Federated Texas 
Bancorporation, San Antonio, Texas (the latter controlling three 
Texas banks: The Alamo National Bank of San Antonio; Corpus Christi 
State National Bank; and American National Bank of Austin). (The 
title of the resulting holding company would be Federated Capital 
Corporation.) The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2, along with a copy 
of Governor Brimmer's concurring statement. 
The Board approved the application of Central Bancshares 
of the South, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of The 
Sumiton Bank, Sumiton, Alabama. Governor Brimmer dissented from this 
action because the proposal contemplated the use of a covenant not 
to compete. The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 3, along with a copy 
of Governor Brimmer's dissenting statement. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The First 
National Bank of Boston, Boston, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of 
two de novo banks located in the Channel Islands, United Kingdom; 

4 8 3 9 
12/17/73 
- 3 -
The First National Bank of Boston (Guernsey) Limited, and Jersey 
Trust Company. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
Economic review. The staff of the research divisions presented 
a review of domestic economic and financial developments, as well as 
trends in foreign exchange markets, of the kind customary in preparation 
for a meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the 
statistical materials prepared for the review have been placed in the 
Board's files, as have copies of the individual briefings. Mr. Cardon 
then commented on the status of legislative matters of interest to the 
Board, 
Staff members who had attended only for the review then withdrew, 
and other staff entered the room. 
Reserve requirement legislation. For a number of years the 
Board had recommended to the Congress that Federal Reserve reserve 
requirements be made applicable to nonmember financial institutions. 
The Administration's legislative proposals growing out of the President's 
Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation (the Hunt Commission) 
did not include provision for universal reserve requirements, but the 
Administration had left open the possibility that it would support 
a separate proposal to be submitted by the Board on this subject. 

4 9 C O 
12/17/73 
- 4 -
Memoranda of December 11, 1973, from Mr. Melnicoff and December 10 
from the Division of Research and Statistics set forth background 
information and commented on the issues involved. A draft bill 
accompanied the Division's memorandum. 
Discussion at today's meeting, which was intended to be 
preliminary, explored the Board's thinking on the various issues. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that, in 
preparation for further consideration of the subject at an early date, 
the staff would prepare additional documentation based on the views 
expressed and would provide information called for by questions raised 
by members of the Board. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting, as did all 
members of the staff. 
f 
Board officer salaries. Vice Chairman Mitchell suggested that 
the Board give such consideration as seemed appropriate in the absence 
of the Chairman to the series of memoranda to the Board concerning 
officer salaries. 
Discussion of Governor Holland's memorandum of December 3, 
1973, "Review of staff salary ceiling," developed agreement that no 
change in existing rules should be made at this time. 
Attention was next directed to the memorandum from the 
Committee on Federal Reserve Board Officer Salaries dated December 14, 
1973, regarding officer salary guidelines. After discussion, the 

4 I X - 1 
12/17/73 
- 5 -
Board approved the recommendations in that memorandum to guide the 
Committee in its setting of 1974 salaries for all officers other 
than those whose salaries were to be set by the Board itself. The 
Board members then agreed that the 26 officers named in the text and 
footnote of Exhibit A-2 of Governor Holland's memorandum of December 14, 
1973, to the Board were the individuals whose salaries the Board itself 
should decide. 
It was agreed that the actual salary decisions regarding those 
individuals should be deferred until a later meeting at which Chair-
man Burns could be present. It was also agreed that discussion of 
Governor Holland's memoranda of December 11, 1973, concerning officers' 
policy and of December 13, 1973, concerning management awards should 
be deferred until the Chairman could be present. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

4 
9 0 2 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N • R S 
,'^oVcoC/-. 
OF THE 
Item No. 1 
.w^r^^.v 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/17/73 
4 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRCSPOHDCNCt! 
TO THE BOARO 
December 20, 1973 
Mr. Harry W. Green 
Examining Officer 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 
Dear Mr. Green: 
I am writing to convey the Board's view with respect to 
the request you transmitted from Second Evergreen Corporation, 
Lincoln, Nebraska, a bank holding company, for a ruling that the 
company comes within § 4(c)(ii) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
which, if applicable, would exempt the company from the prohibi-
tions in § 4 pertaining to a bank holding company's engaging in 
nonbanking activities. 
The Board understands that Second Evergreen has owned a 
majority of the shares of Farmers and Merchants Bank, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, continuously since 1966 and that Second Evergreen became 
a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of enact-
ment of the 1970 Amendments to the Act. The Board further under-
stands that Edith Knight Wekesser and Keith A. Whaley, who are not 
related to each other, each have owned 50 per cent of the shares 
of Second Evergreen continuously since 1966 pursuant to an agree-
ment dated September 5, 1966. That agreement provides that Edith 
Wekesser is obligated to buy Whaley's stock (at book value) at 
his death or at any time before then that Whaley wishes to sell, 
and she has the right to purchase his shares (at book value) at 
any time upon 30 days' written notice. .In the event of Edith Wekesser's 
death, her executor may sell her stock but must give Whaley the oppor-
tunity to purchase it at a price equal to the best price offered by an 
outside purchaser. Except for these eventualities, neither party may 
give, sell, or assign the stock (except that Edith Wekesser may trans-
fer her interest to her husband at any time). The agreement further 
provides that Second Evergreen's board of directors "shall consist" 
of Whaley, Edith Wekesser, and Robert Wekesser. Finally, the agree-
ment provides that, in the event that Whaley disposes of his stock, 

Mr. Harry W. Green 
- 2 -
4 9 0 3 
Whaley is prohibited from engaging in the banking, insurance, or 
real estate business within a radius of 50 miles of Cc-mstock for a 
period of five years unless he obtains the written permission of 
Edith Wekesser. 
Section 4(c)(ii) of the Act applies to a "company covered 
in 1970" more than 85 per cent of the voting stock of which was 
collectively owned on June 30, 1968, and continuously thereafter, 
directly or indirectly, by or for members of the same family, or 
their spouses, who are lineal descendants of common ancestors. 
Unlike other sections of the Act (most notably, § 4(a)(2)), § 4(c)(ii) 
speaks in terms of ownership only and not in terms of ownership or 
control. The Board construes the concept of ownership in § 4(c)(ii) 
as*not applicable where members of the same family hold no interest 
greater than an option, contingent or future interest in the requisite 
number of shares. 
The rights that Edith Wekesser enjoys with respect to Keith 
Whaley's shares may warrant a conclusion that the former controls or 
has a controlling influence over the shares of the latter. 
However, 
the Board does not regard Edith Wekesser as the owner of his shares 
(nor vice versa) within the meaning of § 4(c)(ii). 
Accordingly, 
more than 85 per cent of the stock of Second Evergreen is not owned 
by or for members of the same family, or their spouses, and Second 
Evergreen is not entitled to the exemption provided in § 4(c)(ii). 
Please advise Second Evergreen Corporation of the Board's 
views in this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Theordore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

4 9 0 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
12/17/73 
CAPITAL NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Merger of Bank Holding Companies 
Capital National Corporation ("Applicant"), Houston, 
Texas, a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(5) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(5)) to merge with Federated Texas 
incorporation, ("Federated"), San Antonio, Texas, under the 
certificate of incorporation of Applicant. The name of the corporation 
W i U b e changed to Federated Capital Corporation on the effective 
date of the merger. 
Notice of the receipt of the application, affording an 
°Pportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views, 
h a s beei* given in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for 
filing comments and views has expired, and the Board has considered 
th 
e application and all comments received in light of the factors 
S e t forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the twenty-third largest banking organization 
i n Texas, controls one bank with deposits of about $219 million, 
^Presenting .6 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the 
s t 
y 
a t e* 
Federated controls three banks with total deposits of 
approximately $580 million and ranks as the ninth largest banking 
g
^
i
t 
data are as of June 30, 1973, and reflect acquisitions 
PProved through October 31, 1973. 

4 . 9 0 5 
- 2 -
organization in Texas, controlling 1.7 per cent of the total 
commercial deposits in the State. Upon consummation of the proposal, 
th« 
resulting holding company would control about 2,3 per cent of 
total commercial bank deposits in the State, making it the seventh 
largest holding company in Texas. 
Applicant's one subsidiary bank, Capital National Bank, 
is located in Houston where it is the sixth largest bank in the 
"^rket, controlling 2.3 per cent of the market deposits.2/ 
Federated!s 
Subsidiary banks operate in three distinct markets. Corpus Christi 
Sh 
a t e National Bank is the largest of the 26 banks competing in the 
Co 
t p u s Christi market and holds about 31,2 per cent of the total 
Posits in the market. The Alamo National Bank of San Antonio, 
controls about 10 per cent of the deposits in the San Antonio 
^SA> is the third largest bank in that market. American National 
of Austin is the fourth largest bank in its market and holds 
b° U t l 5 - 2 per cent of total deposits. 
Consummation of the proposed merger would not appear to 
a V e an adverse effect on existing competition since the distance 
S t a t i n g Applicant's subsidiary bank from Federated!s closest 
^ ^ P p U c a r T t also owns approximately 24 per cent of Northwest National 
Boar<5,HoUston> T e x a s » (^posits approximately $25 million). The 
s action herein does not constitute a determination that this 
i s o r may become a subsidiary of Applicant; nor does the action 
to » n indicate that the Board would in the future permit Applicant 
H o O u i r e directly or indirectly any additional shares of this baulk, 
det V e r» t h e determination herein does not preclude the Board from 
^ m i n i n g 
that Applicant exercises a controlling influence over the 
Of 
or policies of the bank within the meaning of § 2(a)(2)(C) 
C h e Act. 

4 9 0 6 
- 3 -
subsidiary is about 160 miles. In addition, it does not appear 
that the proposal will have significantly adverse effects on potential 
competition. Applicant does not appear to possess the resources 
meaningful entry into any of the markets now served by any of 
banking subsidiaries of Federated. While Federated probably 
c°uld gain access to the Houston market through means other than 
it 
LS combination with Applicant, this factor alone does not provide 
Efficient grounds for denial in view of the large number (over 130) of 
hanks in the Houston market, as well as the fact that Applicant does 
n°t occupy a dominant position in that market. On the other hand, 
th 
e proposed merger should result in the development of a new 
state-wide holding company with the financial resources to compete 
e£fectively with the State's largest bank holding companies. The 
concludes, therefore, that the competitive factors are 
insistent with, and lend some weight toward, approval of the 
Application. 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and 
°spects of Applicant, Federated and their subsidiary banks are 
c°nsidered to be generally satisfactory. Applicant has committed 
itself to injecting an additional $2 million in the capital account 
Capital National Bank, which should have the effect of 
lengthening the overall financial condition of the resulting 
holding company. These factors, therefore, are regarded by 
th 
e Board as being consistent with approval of the proposal. 

_ 4 9 0 7 
- 4 -
There is no evidence in the record that the banking needs 
the markets involved are not being adequately served^ 
However, 
international financial capabilities of Applicant will be 
expanded through the combination of Alamo National Bank's Latin 
^ r i c a n expertise and Capital National's European experience. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
immunities to be served are, therefore, consistent with approval, 
is the Board's judgment that execution of the proposed merger is 
in «.i_ 
public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
^ate of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause 
y the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to 
legated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,3/ effective December 28, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E, Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEA LJ 
3 7 ^ : 
J 
Voting for this action: Vice-Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daana, , 
^itiime,. sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman 
Bu*ns. 

4 3 0 8 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I concur in the Board's action approving Capital National 
Corporation's application to merge with Federated Texas Bancorporation, 
However, I want to emphasize one of the factors relied upon by the Board 
which I feel strongly supports our approval of this application and dis-
tinguishes it from some other proposals which have arisen in Texas. 
I 
refer specifically to the fact that the surviving corporation will be a 
medium-sized holding company formed by large - but by no means the 
largest- banks in a State where significantly larger banking organiza-
tions have been mainly responsible for expansion. 
An examination of the deposit data for the State of Texas 
indicates that each of the four largest holding companies controls 
between 5 per cent and 7.5 per cent of the total commercial deposits. 
Cach of the next five largest holding companies controls between 2 per 
Cent and 3 per cent of total commercial deposits. This second group 
deludes the new Federated Capital Corporation which will control 
approximately 2.3 per cent of total commercial deposits. The combina-
tion of Federated's financial resources and Capital National's location 
the Houston market should enable the new holding company to compete 
vi8orously with the larger banking organizations. 
I would contrast this merger with the Board's approval of the 
application of First International Bancshares to become a bank holding 
c°mpany through the acquisition of the shares of the second largest 
in Dallas and the fifth largest bank in Houston. 
(1972 Federal 
He 

_ 4 9 0 9 
- 2 -
In my dissent from the Board's approval of that application I 
expressed my belief that any action cementing the ties among the large 
banks in the State's two largest financial centers would encourage a 
concentration of resources in the banking industry. 
I stated that I 
favored the continuing independence of banks with deposits of $100 million 
more or, alternatively, the formation of their own holding companies. 
Therefore, the approval of this application is consistent with the 
°Pinion expressed in my dissent. 
December 28, 1973 

4 9 1 0 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
12/17/73 
CENTRAL BANCSHARES OF THE SOUTH, INC, 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Central Bancshares of the South, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of The 
Sumiton Bank, Sumiton, Alabama ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and none has been timely received. 
The Board has considered 
the application in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1042(c)). 
Applicant controls eight banks with aggregate deposits of about 
$717 million, representing approximately 10 per cent of total commercial 
bank deposits in Alabama, and is the third largest banking organization in 
the State. 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 1973, adjusted to reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
November 30, 1973.) Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $4.3 million) would 
increase Applicant's share of State deposits by less than one percentage 
Point. 
Bank, the only bank in the town of Sumiton, ranks as the sixth 
largest of seven banking organizations in the relevant market area 

- 2 -
V
J
U 
(approximated by Walker County, Alabama) with 5.5 per cent of the 
market deposits. Applicant's closest banking subsidiary has a branch 
located 25 miles east of Bank, and there is no significant existing 
competition between the two institutions. Furthermore, it appears 
unlikely that any significant competition would develop in the future 
due to the distances separating the banking offices and the size of 
Sank. The Board concludes that consummation of the proposal would not 
have any adverse effects on existing or potential competition, nor on 
any competing bank. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
applicant and its subsidiary banks are satisfactory. Applicant has 
already supplied Bank with management assistance in order to alleviate 
Previously existing managerial problems, and the continued managerial 
assistance which Bank will receive as a subsidiary of Applicant should 
strengthen Bank and enhance its financial resources and future prospects. 
Sfcerefore, banking factors lend weight toward approval of the applica-
tion. In view of the fact that affiliation with Applicant will enable 
Sank to meet the borrowing needs of its larger commercial customers, 
considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served are consistent with approval of the application. It is the 
Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction xrould be 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made 

4 9 1 2 
-3~ 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
r r — — 
Voting for this actions Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
heehan, Bucher and Holland. Voting against this action: Governor 
timmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

4 9 1 3 
3ICSORTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I disagree with the action taken by the majority of the Board 
on this application by Central Bancshares of the South, Inc., to acquire 
The Sumiton Bank. In approving the proposed acquisition, the majority 
has sanctioned a covenant not to compete entered into by Applicant and 
the directors of Bank. The covenant, contained in an agreement by the 
directors to sell Applicant their Bank stock, restricts the directors 
£rom entering the banking business in Walker County, Alabama, or any 
contiguous county, for a period of two years. In effect, such action 
Would preclude for a period of two years the possibility of these 
individuals undertaking to provide an alternative source of banking 
services in the relevant market (as well as contiguous markets) in 
which Applicant would offer such services through Bank. In my opinion, 
8uch agreements are anticompetitive and should not be sanctioned by the 
B°ard. For this reason, I would deny this application. 
^cember 20, 1973 

1 9 1 4 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
12/17/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS QrriCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
December 17, 1973 
The First National Bank of Boston 
Box 201.6 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 16, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act and Regulation M, for The First National Bank"of 
Boston ("FNBB"), Boston, Massachusetts, to purchase and hold all the 
shares of two de novo institutions to be located in the Channel Islands, 
United Kingdom, as follows: The First National Bank of Boston (Guernsey) 
Limited ("FNBG") to be established at an approximate cost of $1,250,000 
arKt Jersey Trust Company ("JTC") to be established at a nominal cost; 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
FNBG by FNBB is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if FNBG shall in any manner engage in 
any activity or take any action whatsoever that 
would not be permissible if FNBG were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act not "engaged in banking"; 
\ 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, FNBB 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FNBG as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FNBG 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as i.f FNBG were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
. , 
> 

4.1)15 
The First National Bank of Boston 
- 2 -
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and ^c) 
of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of JTC by FNBB is granted subject to these same conditions 
as set forth in the immediately preceding two paragraphs, with JIG 
substituted for FNBG. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of FNBG and JTC. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that-the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit.Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to FNBB and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
\ 
