MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 8, 19 73 

4355 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, November 8, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
2/ 
Mr . Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Managing Director for Operations and Supervision 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Tuttle, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Korobow, Manager, Banking Studies Dept., 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
1/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
2/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

4356 
11/8/73 
-2-
Mr. Desch, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia 
Mrs. Glassman, Economist, Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia 
Mr. Sanfelice, Examiner, Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco on November 1, 1973, of the rates on advances and discounts 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Acting Attorney General 
Bork in response to a request for the Board's views on a proposed bill 
entitled "Criminal Justice Information Systems Security and Privacy Act 
°f 1973." A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
In response to an inquiry by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
the Board unanimously approved two letters—one to the St. Louis Bank and 
the other to all Federal Reserve Banks—stating the Board's position 
concerning the acquisition by a bank holding company of additional shares 
°f a nonbank company of which it previously had received approval to 
acquire shares under the provisions of section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act. Copies of the letters are attached as Items 2 and 3. 
The Board unanimously approved an extension of time, from November 4 
to November 12, 1973, in which comments could be submitted on the application 
of Wells Fargo & Company, San Francisco, California, to acquire shares of 

4357 
11/8/73 
-3-
Atlantic-Pacific Leasing, Inc. A copy of the letter sent to counsel 
for the petitioner is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Chicago 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to continue to hold indirectly shares 
of First Chicago Shipping Corporation #1, London, England, after the 
latter engaged in a general leasing and financing business and after 
First Chicago Corporation indirectly made an additional investment in 
the shipping corporation. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bamerical 
International Financial Corporation, San Francisco, California, to acquire 
shares of BA Finance (Hong Kong) Limited, Hong Kong. A copy of the letter 
sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously determined that it would be permissible for 
Edge corporations to continue to hold investments in Adela Investment 
Company S.A., Luxembourg, after that company formed a wholly-owned subsidiary 
in New York, Adela Financial Services, Inc. A copy of the letter sent to 
counsel for Adela is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
City Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire through a wholly-owned 
indirect subsidiary, Nationwide Financial Corporation of Oregon, certain 
assets of Capital Financial Services, Inc. #21, Portland, Oregon. The 
Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of 
which is attached as Item No. 8. 

4358 
11/8/73 
-4-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
Proposed amendment to Bank Holding Company Act. With a memorandum 
of November 5, 1973, the Legal Division submitted a proposed response to 
a request for the Board's views on H. R. 104, a bill that would repeal 
the exemption for labor, agricultural, and horticultural organizations 
from the provisions of section 4(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved a letter, with 
changes in wording, to the House Committee on Banking and Currency in 
support of the proposed bill. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 9. 
Quarterly report on financial developments. With a memorandum 
of November 6, 19 73, Mr. Partee submitted for review and comment by the 
Board a preliminary draft of a staff report to the Joint Economic Committee 
on financial developments in the third quarter of 1973. 
Today's discussion focused on the extent to which the report 
should include substantive data on monetary policy. In the course of the 
discussion, it was understood that future reports would be circulated to 
the individual Board members for comment but would not normally be docketed 
for Board consideration. 
The Board authorized transmittal of the current report, with 
changes in wording, to the Joint Economic Committee. A copy of the letter 
transmitting the report is attached as Item No. 10; a copy of the report 
has been placed in the Board's files. 

4359 
11/8/73 
-5-
First National Bank of Boston. In a memorandum of October 23, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of 
the application of The First National Bank of Boston, Boston, Massachusetts 
to establish a "shell" branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 
British West Indies. The Division pointed out that if the Board were to 
find First National's Nassau, Bahamas, branch to be a "shell" branch, 
approval of this application would be contrary of the Board's policy of 
approving only one such branch per bank, since First National intended to 
maintain its branch in Nassau. The Federal Reserve Bank of Boston recom-
mended approval of the application. 
After discussion,the Board determined that the Nassau branch of 
The First National Bank of Boston was not a "full service" branch and 
therefore denied the application, Governor Daane dissenting because he 
disagreed with the policy of limiting banks to one shell branch. A copy 
°f the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 11. 
First National State Bancorporation. In a memorandum of October 23 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Division of 
Research and Statistics recommended approval of the application of First 
National State Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey, to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to Mechanics National Bank of Burlington County, 
Burlington Township, New Jersey. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
had made a similar recommendation; the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
had recommended denial. With a memorandum of November 6, 1973, the Legal 

4360 
11/8/73 
-6-
Division submitted drafts of an order and a press release reflecting 
the recommendations for approval. 
After a discussion that included remarks by Messrs. Desch and 
Sanfelice and Mrs. Glassman of the Philadelphia Bank and by Mr. Korobow 
°f the New York Bank, the Board approved the application, Governor Bucher 
dissenting on competitive grounds. The Board authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision. Copies of the order and of Governor 
Bucher's dissenting statement are attached under Item No. 12. 
(Note: The order, as published, incorrectly recorded Chairman 
Burns as absent and not voting.) 
Proposed amendment to Regulation J. At its meeting on August 9, 
19 73, the Board gave preliminary consideration to publication for comment 
°f a proposed amendment to Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other 
Items by Federal Reserve Banks, that would institute a system of electronic 
transfers of funds in the payments mechanism. Documentation before the 
Board today included memoranda of August 7, 1973, from Governor Mitchell, 
°f October 26, 19 73, from Messrs. Coyne and O'Brien with which a revised 
draft press release was submitted, and of October 31 and November 7, 19 73, 
from Mr. Melnicoff in which a recommendation was made that the proposed 
amendment, as revised, be published for comment. 
In today's discussion, attention was directed to the following 
questions: (1) the Federal Reserve's role in the operation of the 
electronic funds transfer system; (2) anticipated costs and charges under 
the new system; (3) access to the system by depositary institutions; and 

43G1 
11/8/73 
-7-
(4) whether the Board should proceed with this new program of electronic 
transfers and, if so, whether the proposed amendment should be published 
for comment at this time. Several changes in the wording of the proposed 
amendment were suggested. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that the 
subject would be considered further by the Board next week. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting during the course of 
the discussion of the preceding subject. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1 3 6 2 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• •'OV(>V.•. 
DF THE 
Item No. 
1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 1 / 8 / 7 3 
v
. 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
^lHjji> ••',c; 
AOORCSS ornciAL CPHIUBPOMOCNCC 
' . ir-'i/ •' 
TO THE BOARD 
.Cjr' 
- > 
• 
November 8, 1973 
Acting Attorney General Bork 
. department of: Justice 
Washington, D. C. 20530 
Dear Mr. Bork: 
This is in further reply to Mr. Richardson's letter of 
September '>8, 3 073, to Chairman Burns, requesting the Board's comments 
on a proposed bill entitled "Criminal Justice Information Systems Security 
and Privacy Act of 1973." 
Under the/ proposed bill, access to criminal record infor-
. • 
nation pertaining to individuals would be limited to agencies whose 
principal functions pertain to the enforcement of criminal laws 
except where a statute specifically authorizes dissemination of 
criminal record information to another agency and unaer regulations 
promulgated by the Attorney General. 
It would appear that the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 53 A (a) (?.) 
would suffice to permit the Attorney General to promulgate regulations 
to allow dissemination of criminal record information to the rederai 
Reserve and other bank regulatory agencies to aid them in the exercise 
of their many functions, such as the safeguarding of property, securities, 
gold, or currency. 
It also appears that there is current statutory 
authority which could authorize the dissemination of criminax record ^ 
information to insured banking institutions to promote and maintain tne 
, security of those institutions. The latter authority, however, has been 
legislated yearly as an addendum to the appropriation bill for the 
.. 
Federal Bureau of Investigation and appears to warrant permanent enactment 
The Board lias appreciated the opportunity to comment on the 
proposed bill. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D DP 
G O V E R N O R S 
4303 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/8/73 
VJf< 3HIMGTON', 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
•JJCRES*^ 
November 8, 1973 
Hi\ Harold E. Uthoff 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
0. Box 442 
st. Louis, Missouri 63166 
Dear Mr. Uthoff: 
This is in response to your letter of October 10 1973, 
concerning First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation ("FABCO")/Little Rock 
Arkansas, Pursuant to Board approval of December 26, 1972, -FABCO ac- ' 
quired 38.92 per cent of the voting shares of L. E. Lay & Company, Inc. 
\ **ay )} Little Rock, Arkansas. Apparently FABCO acquired an additional 
0 per cent of the shares of Lay on March 30, 1973. You ask whether *ABC0 
should have appJied to the Board to acquire the additional 6 per cent of 
y s v°ting shares. You also ask whether a bank holding couiuanv is 
generally required to obtain the Board's prior approval to acquire addi-
3-onaj. shares in an already approved nonbanking company in which the bank 
n^cimg company (a) c-ns less than a majority interest or (b) owns more 
U l a n a majority interest. 
t. 
Th<?- B o a r d 
considered these questions and has determined 
nat FABCO's acquisition of the additional 6 per cent of Lay's votin-
snares did not violate the Act or the Board's Order. It is the Board's 
Position that, unless the Board's order approving the acquisition of 
voting shares in a § 4(c)(8) company specifies the number or percentage 
• voting shares that the bank holding company may acquire, the acquis!-
ion of additional shares by such holding company in such § 4(c)(8)* com-
pany does not require further Board approval. In cases where the Board 
specifies the exact number or percentage of voting shares that a bank 
folding company may acquire, the acquisition of any additional voting 
shares will require Board approval. 
Ve ry t ru1y yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

or cow! •. 
11 m 
K r ^ V 
_ 43G1 
BOARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
3 
• F THE 
11/8/73 s..?249 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20S51 
A D D R E S S 
P T F I S I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 8, 1973 
The Board of Governors has recently been asked to consider 
whether a b^nk holding company that has already received Board appro vi 
to acquire 39 per cent of the voting shares o£ a § 4(c)(8) company 
should have obtained the Board's prior approval before acquiring an 
additional 6 per cent of the voting shares of such § 4(c)(b) company. 
The Board also considered whether a bank holding company is generally 
required to obtain the Board's prior approval to acquire additional 
voting shares in an already approved § 4(c)(8) company in uhich the 
holding company (a) ows less than a majority interest or (b) owns 
mere than a majority interest. 
The Board has considered these questions sr.d has determined 
that the acqisition of the additional 6 per cent of the § <He)(8) 
company's voting sharer by the bank holding company did not violate 
the Act or che Board's order. It is the Board's position that 
unless the Board's order approving the acquisition of voting shares 
in ft § 4(c)(8) company specifies the number or percentage or 
voting shores that the bank holding company may acquire, the 
acquisition of additional voting shares in such 5 4(c)(8) company_ 
does not require further Board approval. In cases where the boaio 
specifies the exact number or percentage of voting shares that: a ^ 
bank ItoWins company may acquire, the acquisition of any additional 
voting shares will require Board approval. 
Very truly yours, 
Uioi/Ux.. 
rX 
v < J < f / ^ 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND THE VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

B O A R D 
G P 
G O V E R N O R S 
4365 
D F 
T H E 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
11/8/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
205551 
A D D H E 5 S 
O F F I C I A L 
r . C B R C S P O N O £ N C E 
T P 
T f l C 
U Q A R D 
November 8, 1973 
Pierre J. LaForce, Esq. 
Will Vinson, Cragun & Barker 
•1/35 New York Avenue, N, W. 
Washington, D, C. 
20006 
Dear Mr. LaForce: 
This is with respect to your request, on behalf of the 
National Automobile Dealers Association, for an extension until 
.'November 12, 1973, of the time within which comments and views 
*c&arding the application of Wells Fargo & Company to acquire 
Atlantic-Pacific Leasing, Inc., may be filed. 
The Board lias considered your request and has extended 
the time, for submission of your comments until November 12 , 1973. 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4366 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
.-^OVGOV;•. 
nF THE 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 1 / 8 / 7 3 
W A S L-I IN GTO N, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
u r r i C i A L 
C D R R E E P O N D E N C K 
T D 
T U T . 
B O A W D 
November 9, 1973 
First Chicago Corporation 
One First National Plaza 
Chicago, Illinois 60670 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your application of August 13, 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions 
of Se ction 4(c) (13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation 
("FCC") to continue to hold indirectly the shares of First Chicago 
Shipping Corporation # 1", London, England, after FCSC engages in a 
general leasing and financing business and FCC invests indirectly 
UP to $40 million in FCSC, provided such investment is made within 
two years from the date of this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Section 
H e ) (13), FCSC shall confine its activities to international or 
foreign banking and other international or foreign financial 
operations. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
^vestment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The First National Bank of Chicago and its 
affil iates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

_ 43G7 
Item No. 6 
11/8/73 
O F F I C I A L 
C O S ^ e S P O N D E N K E 
TO THE ROARD 
November 8, 1973 
Bamcricai International Financial 
Corporation 
Bank of America Center 
San Francisco, California 
94104 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 12, 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIFC") 
to purchase and bold, directly or indirectly, all of the shares of 
BA Finance (Hong Kong) Limited ("BAF"), Hong Kong, at a cost of 
Approximately $100,000, provided.the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
°f shares of BAF by BIFC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BAP if BAF at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a 
corporation organized under Section 2 5 ( a ) of the 
Federal Reserve Act could, with consent of the 
Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if 
BAF establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in Hong Kong 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to BIFC; 
That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
BIFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of BAF as it may 
require from time to time; and 
BOARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E B Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
205J51 
ADDRHBS 
(1) 
(2) 

4368 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BAF be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if BAF were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the livened lately preceding paragraph of this letter so fas as they 
delate to restrictions on loans granted by BAF in Hong Kong in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of BAF. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
i P 
I 
I 
Bamerical International Financial 
Corporation 
- 2 -
1 

4369 
B O A R D LIT GL3VERNDR5 
DT THE 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/8/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
X-?.^ * 
AOORES3 U r KI r: IA (! CORRr3t»UNOKMC 
i ^ A . ' 
' 
• 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R O 
•tn-
November 9, 1973 
Sullivan £< Cromwell 
48 Wall Street 
Now York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
This in response to your letter of December 7, 1972, in 
which a Board ruling was requested that investments by Edge 
Corporations in Adela Investment Company S.A., (ADELA) Luxembourg, 
would continue to be permissible after ADETA forms a wholly-owned 
subsidiary in the United States, Adela Financial Services, Inc. 
(AFS). It is understood that AFS would conduct the following 
activities: 
(1) Negotiate with institutional holders of Latin American 
securities regarding programs of reorganization and 
recapitalization; 
(2) Private placement with institutions in the United States, 
primarily banks, of securities in ADELA's portfolio as a 
means of freeing Adela's resources for new activities in 
Latin America; 
(3) Presentation of investment opportunities in Latin America 
to substantial United States investors of venture capital; 
(/*) Placement of loans for Latin .American borrowers directly 
through participations in the acquired loan transaction 
or through sale of participating certificates. 
It is further understood that AFS would not manage any public offerings 
in the United States or participate as an underwriter in any public 
offering securities in the United States managed by others. 

- 2 -
4370 
In weighing this request, the Board has taken in to 
consideration the fact that existing investments by Edge Corporations 
in ADELA involve very small ownership interests and that even collec-
tively, Edge Corporations do not appear able to exercise contro) 
over ADELA's management or policies. 
/ 
With this consideration in mind, and based on the 
information and representations contained in your letter that (.1) 
ADELA is not controlled by Edge Corporation shareholders and (2) 
the activities of APS will remain a minor part of ADELA's total 
activities, the Board would not interpose ail objection to the 
holding by Edge Corporations of shares of ADELA if A.FS is formed to 
carry on the aforementioned activities. 
The Board has reserved decision on the question of 
whether the activities of AFS, as outlined, constitute the business 
of underwriting, selling or distributing securities within the 
meaning of Section 211.8(c)(1)(i) of Regulation K. To further its 
review of this question, this ruling is conditioned upon the 
agreement by ADELA that AFS shall be subject to examination by 
examiners appointed by the Board and that such reports regarding the 
activities of AFS shall be furnished as the Board may from time to 
time require. 
, 
. 
, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B* Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4371 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m No- 8 
11/8/73 
FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Certain Assets of 
Capital Financial Services, Inc. // 21 
First National City Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPplied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
Of £1 
Board's Regulation Y, to acquire, through a wholly owned indirect 
Subsidiary, Nationwide Financial Corporation of Oregon ("Nationwide"), 
Certain assets of Capital Financial Services, Inc. // 21, Portland, Oregon 
^ CaPital"), a consumer finance company. Nationwide which would acquire 
assets and assume Capital's lease proposes to engage in the folloi<ring 
tivities at Capital's sole office: making consumer installment personal 
» Purchasing consumer installment sales finance contracts; and acting 
a8ent or broker for the sale of credit life and credit accident and 
alth insurance and consumer credit related property and casualty insur-
atiatico 
Such activities have been determined by the Board to be closely 
telated to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
sons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
G e n duly published (38 Federal Register 26506). The time for filing 
c0iuIn 
lcs and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
off 
regard to sale of credit related insurance, Applicant states no 
will be made of insurance counseling. 

4372 
- 2 -
Applicant, the second largest bank holding company in New York 
and the third largest banking organization in the United States, controls 
S e V e n banks with aggregate domestic deposits of over $15.5 billion, repre-
senting 14.3 per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
banking and financial data are as of December 31, 1972.) 
Applicant 
*So cor*trols non-banking subsidiaries engaged principally in mortgage 
ar*king, lease and conditional sales financing, and the consumer finance 
Alness. 
Capital, a wholly owned subsidiary of Capital Finance Corporation 
* Columbus, Ohio, is engaged in the consumer finance (small loan) business 
in i uding the sale of credit related insurance at its sole office which is 
lo 
1/ 
Cated in Portland, Oregon. 
Capital has total assets of $10,018 consisting 
eight consumer notes receivable of $5,018 together with furniture and 
f j 
u*es valued at $5,000. Applicant's consumer finance subsidiary, Nation-
wide 
~ 
» operates two offices in the Portland market 
and has received approval 
°Pen a third office. Applicant's total receivables at these offices 
e $822 thousand and its share of the outstanding consumer finance 
loans 4 
xs, and would remain upon consummation of the proposed acquisition, 
fchan one per cent. There are 31 other finance companies and 23 banks 
^nSurPP*iCant:, t h r o u8 h Nationwide, is not purchasing any insurance licenses, 
dUct
 a n c e contracts or customer lists from Capital but does intend to con-
a credit related insurance business from the office of Capital. 
3/ T 
S*1SA 
"ortland market is approximated by the Portland, Oregon-Washington 
p? 0 n s i s t i nS 
Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington Counties in Oregon 
ark County in Washington. 

4373 
- 3 -
°Perating in the relevant market. In view of the facts above, particularly 
tl*e limited amount of Capital's outstanding loans, and other facts of record, 
fche Board has concluded that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to have 
any adverse effects on existing or future competition in the relevant 
market. 
Capital's parent through operating subsidiaries has 11 offices 
in the Portland market. The office operated by Capital would be closed 
entirely if this application were denied. Thus, approval of the subject 
aPplication would serve the convenience of the public by ensuring the 
c°ntinued operation of a consumer lending office and its credit related 
insurance activities at Capital's location. There is no evidence in the 
record indicating that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
Result in undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, conflicts 
of interests, unsound banking practices, or other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
t h e record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
SubJect to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to 
^ e Board's authority to require such modification or termination of the 
activitieS of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes 
ot the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or 
to prevent evasion thereof. 

_ 4374 
- 4 -
The transaction shall be made rtot later than three months 
after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
8o°d cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 8, 1973. 
(Signed) 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
^ 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell, and Governors Daane, 
ucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
rimmer and Sheehan. 

_ 4375 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 9 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
11/8/73 
November 8, 1973 
^he Honorable Wright Patman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
?.am writing in reply to your request for a report on H, R. 104, a 
ill which would amend § 4(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
as amended ("Act"), by repeal of the exemption for bank hold-
lnS companies which are labor, agricultural, or horticultural 
Sanitations. 
® you know, the Board has commented favorably on this proposal in 
h e past. In 1953, in its first report to Congress under the Bank 
olding Company Act, the Board recommended repeal of the exemption. 
Alle Board's experience since that time in administering the Act has 
indicated that the Board should change its position. Accord-
the Board continues to recommend that the exemption for labor, 
a8ricultural, and horticultural organizations be repealed and, to 
" a t end, supports the proposed bill, H. R. 104. 
Sincerely yours, 
A y 
Arthur F. Burns 
' '-f^r^-V 

4376 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
WASHINGTON. D. C. SOS5I-
OF THE 
G E Q R D E 
W . 
M I T C H E L L 
M E M B E R 
O F 
T H E . 
B O A R O 
Item No. 10 
11/8/73 
N o v e m b e r 13, 
1973 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
Chairman 
Joint E c o n o m i c 
Committee 
Washington, 
D. C. 
20510 
Dear M r . 
Chairman: 
In accordance with the arrangements previously 
made with your Committee, 
I a m enclosing a staff report 
on financial developments in the third quarter of 1973. 
Sincerely yours 
Enclosure 

4377 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 11 
11/8/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 15, 197 3 
The First National Bank of Boston 
P. 0. Box 1784 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02105 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letters of December 18, 1972, 
February 9, March 6 and May 16, 1973, requesting permission of 
the Board of Governors to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand 
Cayman, Cayman Islands. It is understood that the proposed 
branch would have a limited license, as does your Nassau branch, 
and that it would have no contact with the local public, would 
^e operated on the initiative and on the authorization from 
head office and foreign branches c£ your bank, and that quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping for the limited service branch would be 
Supplied under contract. 
The Board's policy has been to permit a bank to operate 
°nly a single limited licensed branch in the Bahamas and Cayman 
Islands. 
Accordingly, in view of the fact that your bank already 
has a branch of this type in Nassau, Bahamas, the present 
aPplic.ation is denied„ 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed). Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4378 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I T E M N O > 
1 2 
11/8/73 
FIRST NATIONAL STATE BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National State Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
^2(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
h a r e s) of the successor by merger to Mechanics National Bank of Burlington 
County, Burlington Township, New Jersey ("Bank"). The bank into which 
Bank -LS to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate 
e acquisition 
of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
Ccluisition 0£ s h a r e g 0f 
successor organization is treated herein as 
Proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
r S° n s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
n e Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
light-
fa,c of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company in New Jersey, con-
Gight banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.5 billion, 
enting 7.6 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the 
Sta t e 
1 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank (deposits of almost $90 million) 
v°uid A 
increase its share of commercial bank deposits in New Jersey by 0.5 
ca8e point and there would be no significant increase in the concen-
'"ion of banking resources in the State. 
data are as of December 31, 1972; all market data are as of 
aPpro 
1 9 7 2* a n d r e f l e c t holding company formations and acquisitions 
V G d by the Board through September 30, 1973. 

- 2 -
4379 
Bank operates 15 offices in Burlington County, New Jersey; three 
of 
~ f 
those offices are in the Philadelphia-Camden banking market 
and the 
3/ 
Gaining 12 offices are in the Trenton banking market. 
In the former 
"fcrket there are a total of 50 cormercial banking organizations which hold com-
itlGd dePOsits of over $12 billion. Bank is the 24th largest organization there-
n a^d controls deposits of approximately $41 million, representing only 0.3 
cent of total market deposits. Applicant is not represented in this 
^ k e t in which five of New Jersey's multi-bank holding companies are 
prcsent. The Board concludes that approval of the proposed acquisition 
not eliminate existing competition or adversely affect any banking 
Or8anization in the Philadelphia-Camden banking market. 
The Trenton banking market is presently served by 30 commercial bank-
^ or8anizations holding combined deposits of $1.5 billion; Bank is the ninth 
gcst therein with deposits of over $40 million, representing 2.7 per 
°f deposits in the market. Four of New Jersey's multi-bank holding 
mPanies, including Applicant, are presently represented in the market. 
Appi j 
^cant's subsidiary, First National State Bank of Central Jersey, Trenton 
Antral"), operates three offices in the Trenton market with total deposits 
of $56 o 
million and is the sixth largest bank with 3.9 per cent of market 
^Posit-
AC8» 
Upon consummation of the proposed acquisition, Applicant would 
6 the third largest banking organization in the Trenton market and 
fir 
„ 
° Per cent of total deposits therein. By comparison, the first and 
i T x j j — _ 
Part-g6 philadelphia-Camden banking market consists of Camden County and 
C°Unt ° f G:!-ouce8ter and Burlington Counties in New Jersey and Delaware 
C0un 
Philadelphia County and parts of Chester, Montgomery and Bucks 
3/ 
s i n Pennsylvania. 
^ r e n t o n hanking market consists of Mercer County and parts of 
JerSe
n8ton» Ocean, Monmouth, Middlesex and Somerset Counties in New 
V and the eastern portion of Bucks County in Pennsylvania. 

- 3 -
43S0 
8eCond largest banking organizations in the market would continue to hold 31 
per cent and 14 per cent of those deposits, respectively, and 29 banking 
organizations would remain in the Trenton market. 
The service areas of Bank and Central do not overlap and the nearest 
listing offices of the two banks are approximately eleven miles apart; 
there are other banking alternatives located in the intervening area. 
Antral obtains nearly all of its deposits in the Trenton market whereas 
fiank derives approximately half of its deposits from the Philadelphia-Camden 
*ket and the remaining half from the Trenton market. In addition, it 
be noted that the respective Trenton market shares of Central and 
Bank are generated from different portions of that market; accordingly, upon 
Ppr°val, Applicant would develop business from a segment of the Trenton 
a*ket in which it presently is not represented. Furthermore, Bank does 
ot derive any meaningful business from the service areas of any of Appli-
Cant'o 
3 other subsidiaries. The Board concludes that approval of the 
PlTO 
P°sed acquisition would not eliminate significant existing competition 
* Aversely affect any banking organization in the Trenton banking market. 
It appears that consummation of this proposal is likely to have 
a slightly adverse effect on future competition between Applicant and 
Bank i ^ the aforementioned banking markets. As. an alternative to acquiring 
Bank * 
— 
" 
* Applicant could enter the Philadelphia-Camden market by acquiring one 
of t h e market's smaller independent banks, by forming a de novo bank, or 
by t 
ranching into the market through one of its existing subsidiaries. 
Hotyev er» foreclosure of this competition is not considered serious inasmuch 
as th 
e philadelphia-Camden market contains a large number of independent 

4381 
- 4 -
c°mpetitors and bank holding company subsidiaries. Also, approval herein 
enable Bank to compete more effectively with the much larger banking 
0rSani2ations already operating in this market. 
Similarly, the Board does not find a strong likelihood of signi-
° a n t co^petition developing between Applicant (through Central) and Bank 
u t^e Trenton banking market. Legislation recently enacted in the State 
perinits branching by each bank into portions of the market served by the 
other • 
> thus, Central may now open branches in the Burlington County portion 
of tt 
e market while Bank is permitted to branch into Mercer County. However, 
Potential for such competition is small at present, as only three 
nicipalities in the Burlington portion of the market are presently open 
tO by. Aching; such entry into the market will be restricted until 1975 
Dranch office protection is removed. Furthermore, due to Bank's low 
CaPital 
position and poor earnings record, it does not appear that Bank 
likely to branch into the Mercer County portion of the market in which 
Centrai 
operates. Although consummation of the proposal would foreclose 
possibility that Applicant would expand in the Trenton market through 
ot its present subsidiaries, the proposed acquisition would not 
tai8e b 
arriers to entry into the Trenton market since numerous independent 
°uld remain available as possible vehicles for entry. On the basis 
of t h 
and other facts of record, the Board concludes that consummation 
Proposed acquisition would not have any significant adverse effect 
UPon e x J 
mating competition and would have only a slightly adverse effect 
LU*e competition. 

- 5 -
43S2 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant 
atl<* its subsidiary banks are satisfactory and future prospects for all 
ate favorable; upon consummation, Bank's financial and managerial resources 
be satisfactory in view of Applicant's commitment to inject into Bank 
an additional $2 million of equity capital. Applicant proposes to assist 
Ba 
in offering new and improved services including trust, data processing, 
^nicipai financing, and international services as well as an improvement 
in B 
Bank's general lending policies. Although it appears that similar 
Setvices are presently available in Bank's areas, the increased and improved 
ervices would provide customers in both markets with an additional con-
Venient source of full-service banking. Moreover, Bank is the principal 
bank 
* serving the area encompassing the Fort Dix Army and McGuire Air Force 
Bank's activities and services are very limited at these locations 
d applicant 
plans to appreciably increase those services. Therefore, 
Venience and needs considerations are significant and, in the Board's 
^u%uent, outweigh the proposal's slightly adverse effect on competition. 
It i 
i s the 
Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the 
Pubiic interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
6as°ns summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) before 
116 thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or 
ater than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 

4383 
- 6 -
S U c h Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
& 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane 
an<* Holland. Voting against this action: Governor Bucher. Absent and 
n°t voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer and Sheehan. 
Order incorrectly recorded Chairman Burns as 
absent and not voting. 

4384 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BUCHER 
I cannot concur with the majority decision approving the 
aPplication by First National State Bancorporation ("Applicant") to acquire 
the Mechanics National Bank of Burlington County ("Bank"). There are, 
iti 
my view, countervailing considerations which both lessen the asserted 
Public benefits and increase the adverse impact of this acquisition upon 
0InPetition. On balance these factors weigh for a denial. 
As noted by the majority, Bank has service areas in both the 
^iladelphia-Camden and the Trenton banking markets. Thus, the market 
q L are data should be evaluated through a consideration of Bank's location 
a t the interface of these adjacent SMSA banking markets. My analysis 
l e a d s m e to believe that Bank, a primarily retail banking operation with 
fift 
-een branch offices, has a strong marketing position in the growing 
Suburban service areas on either side of this SMSA interface. Thus, al-
tho 
u8h the two banking markets are not highly concentrated and Bank has 
elatively small market shares in each banking market, there is significant 
0lnPetitive Impact by the acquisition of Bank by the largest bank holding 
Co*Pany i n t h e S t a t e > 
I agree with the majority that there is a slightly adverse 
^f f 
e c t on existing competition in the Trenton banking market. However, 
* Edition. I think there would be a substantial elimination of probable 
futuro 
competition in both the Trenton and Camden banking markets. At 
Pt e 
SGr*t Applicant's subsidiary bank ("Central"), located in the Trenton 
k^nki 
market, could branch or Applicant could expand de novo into Bank s 

4385 
- 2 -
Service area in the Trenton banking market. By January 1975, when branch 
office protection statutes will be eliminated for the most part in New 
Jersey> Central could then branch into Bank's Camden service area (Burlington 
c°unty), T h i g i g a s h o r t period of time to await further expansion and would 
CaU8e little hindrance to future planning. At present Applicant could 
exPand into the Philadelphia-Camden market de novo or through a foothold 
ac^isition. 
Present market conditions should give Applicant a strong incentive 
to exPand into Bank's portions of these banking markets. Burlington County 
is the second fastest growing county in New Jersey. Bank's service area 
aPpears to have substantial long term growth prospects at the outer fringes 
of 
tw° metropolitan areas now merging into one another. These prospects 
a l s° lessen the risk posed by possible reductions at the two military bases 
in 
the area. As might be expected in formerly rural areas, the Camden and 
renton suburbs appear attractive for expansion given the number of existing 
offices per capita. It should also be noted that, in spite of its 
vative practices, Bank has grown from approximately $52 million to 
near 
million in deposits over the last five years. 
I would prefer a holding company with the resources of Applicant 
enter new market areas either de novo or by foothold acquisition. My 
U d y causes me to conclude that this is a reasonable and pro-competitive 
ternative in this case. Further, the presence of a large holding company 
c°mbiI1 
a e d with Bank's existing branch network may deter the entry of other 
ba 
8 into this area, thus restricting future banking alternatives available 

43S6 
- 3 -
t 0 locally limited consumers. 
Affiliation with Applicant would probably be of some aid to 
^ank in strengthening its capital and management. However, given the 
detrimental competitive effects, the Board ought to consider alternative 
methods to produce these public benefits. Bank's capital accumulation 
has lagged behind Bank's rapid deposit growth. Earnings have been below 
e average of similar sized banks, primarily due to a recent large fixed 
in 
vestment in Bank's new main office and to conservative lending practices. 
Certainly, under these circumstances, a smaller holding company not already 
^Presented in either of these banking markets could offer the same 
assistance to Bank in improving its overall condition. Taking into con-
O J 
J 
elation Bank's marketing position, solid asset base, good growth potential 
history of conservative banking practices, Bank, standing alone, has 
the 
capability to attract and compensate management talent and raise addi-
tional capital. An additional countervailing factor is that as a consumer-
dl 
rected "retail" bank with deposits of about $90 million, Bank has reached 
a size range where there would be few further benefits produced by affili-
atio 
n with a large holding company. 
The convenience and needs of the communities seem to be well 
8e*Ved in t h e philadelphia-camden and the Trenton banking markets. The 
Pro 
Posed services to be offered by Bank are equally available through 
c°rrespondent banks or through further internal development. Certainly 
w°uld foresee little need for a bank of this character to develop highly 

4387 
- 4 -
SoPhisticated trust or international banking services. Therefore, I cannot 
a8ree that the convenience and needs criterion outweighs the adverse 
c°ftpetitive effects. 
Given these factors, I view the acquisition of this sizeable 
a s the least desirable form of expansion by Applicant and as only 
°ne of several alternative methods of raising Bank's competitive stature. 
1 w°uid deny the application. 
N°vember 23, 1973 
