MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 6, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Amendment to Regulation G, Securities 
Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, 
Brokers, or Dealers. 

4756 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 6, 19 73. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 2:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Tuttle, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kudlinski, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on November 27, by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City on November 28, by the Federal Reserve Banks 
1/ Joined meeting and withdrew at points indicated in minutes. 

4757 
12/6/73 
-2-
of New York and of San Francisco on November 29, and by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta on December 4, 1973, of the rates on advances 
and discounts in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved an amendment to Regulation G, 
Securities Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers, 
effective immediately, that provided for the transfer of credits 
between persons registered pursuant to the regulation. A copy of the 
Federal Register notice is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chemical 
International Finance Limited, New York, New York, to acquire shares 
of Chemical Asia Finance Corporation, Limited, Hong Kong. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Fidelity 
American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, to acquire shares of 
The Peoples Bank of Buena Vista, Virginia, Inc., Buena Vista, Virginia. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a 
copy of which is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Boatmen's 
Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank of 
Pevely, Pevely, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 

4758 
12/6/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of PanNational 
Group Inc., El Paso, Texas, to acquire shares of Franklin National 
Bank, also of El Paso, a proposed new bank. The Board authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of which is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Chairman of 
the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs in response 
to a request for the Board's views on S. 2735, a bill cited as the 
proposed Emergency Mortgage Credit Act of 1973. A copy of the letter 
is attached as It em No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Royal Trust Company. In a memorandum of December 5, 19 73, the 
Legal Division recommended that the Board deny the application of The 
Royal Trust Company, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, to acquire indirectly 
on a permanent basis shares of Information Systems Design, Inc., 
Oakland, California. At the same time, the Division recommended that 
the Board permit the acquisition on a temporary basis because such 
acquisition would be incidental to an essentially foreign transaction, 
the acquisition of Computel Systems, Ltd., a Canadian corporation, and 
would facilitate an orderly divestiture of Information Systems Design. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously denied the application 
for permanent acquisition of Information Systems Design, but granted 
permission for its temporary acquisition on the condition that Royal Trust 

.. 4759 
12/6/73 
-4-
Company divest its interest in Information Systems Design as soon as 
practicable but in no event later than two years from the date of 
acquisition. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting this 
decision, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 7. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 8. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
Cedar Holdings Limited. 
In a memorandum of December 5, 1973, 
the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended approval of the application of Cedar Holdings 
Limited, Bankers, London, England, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of The Chester National Bank, Chester, 
New York. With a separate memorandum of December 5, 19 73, the Legal 
Division submitted drafts of an order and a press release. 
After discussion, the Board approved the application, Governor 
Brimmer dissenting on the grounds of possible adverse banking factors 
and the absence of public benefits. 
The Board authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached under Item No. 9, 
along with a copy of Governor Brimmer's dissenting statement. 
Lloyds Bank Limited—Lloyds First Western Corporation. 
In a 
memorandum of December 4, 1973, the Division of Research and Statistics 
and the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the applications of Lloyds Bank Limited, London, England, and of its 
wholly-owned subsidiary, Lloyds First Western Corporation, a Delaware 

47G0 
12/6/73 
-5-
corporation, to become bank holding companies through the acquisition 
by Lloyds First Western Corporation of shares of First Western Bank 
and Trust Company, Los Angeles, California. With a memorandum of 
December 5, 1973, the Legal Division submitted drafts of an order and 
a press release. 
After discussion, the Board approved the applications, Governor 
Bucher abstaining, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this 
decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 10. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
NOW accounts. At its meeting on December 4, 19 73, the Board 
approved an amendment to Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, concerning 
accounts subject to negotiable orders of withdrawal (NOW accounts). 
Documentation before the Board today consisted of memoranda of December 6, 
1973, from Mr. Kudlinski regarding clearing arrangements and of December 5, 
1973, from Governor Brimmer providing cost estimates for monitoring the 
activity and operation of NOW accounts in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. 
At today's meeting, the Board discussed the implementation of 
the Federal Reserve's regulations and monitoring program for NOW accounts 
and reviewed the positions of the other regulatory agencies concerned 
with such accounts. 
The Board also discussed plans for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston to assign special numbers to thrift institutions 
to appear on NOW items. 

4761 
12/6/73 
-6-
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting during the course 
of the foregoing discussion. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

4762 
Item No. 1 
12/6/73 
TITLE 12 - BANKS ANp BANKING 
CHAPTER It - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regulation G] 
"Securities Credit by Persons other than B.nks, Brokers, or Dealers" 
"Transfers" 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(15 U.S.C. 78g), the Board is.adopting the following amendment to Part 207 
by adding section 207.4(g). The change provides for the transfer of 
credit from one person registered with the Federal Reserve System 
pursuant to Regulation G to another such registrant. 
The amendment is 
set forth below. 
§ 207.4 - Miscellaneous Provisions 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(s) Transfers. A person who is registered pursuant to the 
requirement of § 207.1(a) of this part may, without following the 
requirements of this part as to the extension of a credit, accept the 
transfer of a credit originally extended in conformity with the require-
ments of this part directly from another such person: Provided, That 
the statement of purpose, executed by the customer in connection with 
the original, extension of credit and accepted in good faith and signed 
by the transferor in conformity with the requirements of § 207.1(e) of 
this part, is obtained and kept with each such transferee account: 
And provided further, That any transfer pursuant to this paragraph 
is made as a bona fide incident to a transaction not undertaken for 

4763 
- 2 ~ 
the purpose of avoiding the requirements of this part, the amount 
of the credit in connection with the transfer is not increased, and 
the collateral for the transferred credit is not changed; and, after 
such transfer, a lender may permit such withdrawals and substitutions 
of collateral as are permitted in respect to a credit it extends 
subject to this part. 
•k 
* 
* 
* 
-k 
The Board has found, based upon its experience in administer-
ing Regulation G, that its inspection procedures -with respect to 
persons registered pursuant to the regulation provide safeguards 
against possible circumvention of the regulation by means of transfer 
equivalent to those under Regulations T and U. The lack of a transfer 
provision similar to parallel provisions in Regulations T and U imposes 
a hardship on borrowers if credit under Regulation G is undermargined 
prior to transfer. For the reasons stated above and since the borrower 
may not be able to exercise control over the creditor's decision to 
transfer a credit, the Board finds that the hardship has become undue. 
Since the amendment relieves this hardship to the extent warranted by 
the Board's experience in administering Regulation G, the Board finds 
that compliance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. § 553 with respect to 
notice and public participation is unnecessary and contrary to the 
public interest. 

4764 
- 3 
The requirement of 5 U.S.C. § 553 with respect to delayed 
effective date was not followed in connection with this amendment 
becauoe it relieves a restriction. 
This amendment shall become effective immediately. 
By Order of the Board of Governors, December 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
<T 
nr THE 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/6/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
l i l r 
ADORISS orriciAL confirsPONDiNCE 
'« - A1?^' ' ' 
TP THE BOARD 
December 7', 197 3 
Chemical International Finance Limited 
20 Pine Street 
Nev7 York, New York 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 15, 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ( CI* ) 
to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly 
all the shares of 
Chemical Asia Finance Corporation, Limited ("CAFC"), IHong Kong, 
at a cost of approximately HK10,000,000 (about $2,000,000), 
provided that the equivalent of $500,000 is invested within one 
year from the date of this letter. In this connection, approval 
is also granted for the purchase and holding of shares of CAFC 
in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capital and 
surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and 
holding of shares of CAFC by GIF is granted subject to the 
following conditions: 
(1) That CIF shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CAFC if CAFC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act could, with the. consent of 
the Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, 
or if CAFC establishes any branch or agency or 
takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Hong Kong or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to CIF; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
CIF will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of CAFC as it may 
require from time to time; 
p. 

4766 
Chemical International 
Finance Limited 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
CAFC be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regu-
lation K in the same manner as if CATC were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of CAFC. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to Chemical Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

4767 
Item No. 3 
12/6/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
FIDELITY AMERICA!* BANKSHARES, INCk 
Order Apptoving Acquisition of Bank 
Fidelity American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board1s approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of The Peoples Bank of 
Buena Vista, Virginia, Inc., Buena Vista, Virginia ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 13 banks with aggregate deposits of $596 
million, representing 5.3 per cent of commercial bank deposits in 
Virginia and is the eighth largest banking organization in the State. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1973, unless otherwise indicated, 
and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
by the Board through October 31, 1973.) Consummation of the pro-
posed acquisition of Bank (deposits of $6 million) would not 
significantly increase the concentration of banking resources in 
Virginia. 

2-
4768 
Applicant is the fifth largest of seven banking organizations 
operating in the relevant banking market which.is approximated by the 
boundaries of Rockbridge County, Applicant presently competes in the 
market through a subsidiary bank located in Natural Bridge Station, 
1/ 
which holds 8 per cent of total market deposits. 
Bank, with 6.8 per 
cent of total market deposits, holds the smallest share of deposits in 
Rockbridge County, 
Bank is located in the small town (population 6,400) of 
Buena Vista, a distance of approximately 13 miles from Applicant's 
nearest subsidiary banking office in Natural Bridge Station, The 
two offices are separated by mountainous terrain and two rivers. 
Consummation of the proposal would reduce the number of banking alter-
natives within the market from seven to six and would result in Appli-
cant's becoming the third largest banking organization within the 
market with slightly less than 15 per cent of market deposits. 
However, an analysis of deposit and loan accounts indicates there 
is no substantial existing competition between Bank and any of 
Applicant's banking subsidiaries. The development of significant 
future competition between Applicant's banking subsidiary at 
Natural Bridge Station (or any other banking subsidiary of Appli-
cant) and Bank appears unlikely due to their geographic separation, 
the presence, io the intervening area of three other banking offices; 
1/ Market data are as of June 30, 1972, 

4769 
-3-
and the population trend 
and limited deposit potential of the market. 
It appears that the proposed acquisition would have no significantly 
adverse effect on competition in the relevant areas. 
Applicant has made long-range plans and commitments to 
increase the capital position of its subsidiaries and the financial 
and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant and its banking 
subsidiaries appear satisfactory, Bank's managerial resources appear 
satisfactory. Applicant has made commitments to provide $150,000 
of additional equity capital for Bank, and, in view of this commit-
ment, the financial condition and prospects of Bank are regarded 
as satisfactory. Accordingly, considerations relating to the finan-
cial and managerial resources of Bank lend support to approval of 
the application. There is no evidence in the record to indicate 
that the banking needs of the Rockbridge County banking market are 
not being adequately served. However, it appears that affiliation 
of Bank with Applicant will enable Bank to offer additional finan-
cial services such as leasing, accounts receivable.financing, and 
wholesale financing of installment sales contracts. 
Considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served are consistent with approval of the application. 
It is 
the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 

4770 
-4-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2? Voting for this action: Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher and 
Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Eurns and Governors 
Mitchell and Daane. 

4771 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/6/73 
BOATMEN'S BANCSHARES, INC.-
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri ("Applicant"), 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent o£ more of the 
voting shares of Bank of Pevely, Pevely, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. 
The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in light of factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the sixth largest banking organization in 
Missouri, presently has six approved subsidiary banks 1/ with 
aggregate deposits of $416.9 million, representing 2.98 per cent of 
the total commercial bank deposits in the State.2/ Acquisition of 
Bank, with deposits of $5.4 million, would increase Applicant's 
share of statewide deposits by only .04 percentage points and 
^ould not result in any significant increase in the concentration of 
banking resources in Missouri. 
1/ Includes Boatmen's National Bank of North St. Louis County, an 
approved de novo subsidiary bank which to date has not begun operations. 
2/ Banking data as of December 31, 1972, and reflects acquisitions 
approved through September 11, 1973. 

4772 
-2-
Bank is the sixth largest of nine banks located in its 
banking market which includes, with the exception of the northwest 
quadrant, all of Jefferson County, Missouri. Applicant's closest 
subsidiary bank is located approximately 20 miles north of Bank, 
outside its service area. 
In view of the distances involved and 
the presence of a number of intervening competing banks, there is 
considered to be no substantial existing competition between 
Applicant's closest subsidiary bank and Bank or any other of 
Applicant's subsidiaries. 
Furthermore, the restrictive branching 
laws of Missouri at present preclude the development of any 
substantial future competition between any of Applicant's banking 
subsidiaries and 
Bank. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant, its present subsidiaries and Bank are all regarded as 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. 
There 
is no evidence that the major banking needs of Bank's service area 
are not being met by existing financial institutions; however, 
affiliation with Applicant should enable Bank to better satisfy 
current and future demands for consumer and commercial loans as the 
population of the area expands. Thus, considerations relating to 
convenience and needs lend some weight toward approval of the 
application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition is in the public interest and the application should be 
approved. 

_ 4773 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons suramarized above. The transaction shall not be 
made (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the 
effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
-3 / 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective—' December 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3/ Voting for this action: Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucherj. and 
Holland. Absent and, not voting: Chairman Burns: and»Govertiors Mitchell 
and Daane. 

4774 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 2 / 6 / 7 3 
PANNATIONAL GROUP INC., EL PASO, TEXAS 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
PanNational Group Inc., El Paso, Texas, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
acquire all of the voting shares of Franklin National Bank, El Paso, 
Texas ("Bank") a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant, the thirteenth largest banking organization in Texas, 
1/ 
has four subsidiary banks 
with aggregate deposits of approximately $352 
million or about 1 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the 
2/ 
State. 
Since Bank is a proposed new bank, acquisition of Bank will not 
immediately increase the percentage of total deposits held by Applicant or 
1/ Applicant, in addition to these four banks, owns 24.98 per cent of 
Citizens State Bank of Ysleta, El Paso, Texas, with deposits of approxi-
mately $9 million or .02 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the 
State. 
In connection with Applicant's application to become a bank holding 
company approved by the Board on February 29, 1973, Applicant was required 
to divest its 28.4 per cent of interest in Charles Basset Center, Inc. 
(a nonbank subsidiary engaged in shopping center development) and its 12 
per cent interest in Darbyshire Steel Company, Inc. (acquired through loan 
foreclosure in 1972). Applicant has advised the Board that the required 
divestiture will take place by February 1974. 
2/ All deposit figures are as of June 30, 1973, and reflect bank holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved through November 
1973. 

4775 
-2-
change its rank among State banking organizations. 
The proposed site of Bank will be in the El Paso banking market, 
which is approximated by the El Paso SMSA. Of 14 banks in the relevant 
market, Applicant controls two banks with deposits of about $290 million, 
representing 36.4 per cent of the total market deposits. As a result of 
its share of deposits, Applicant is the second largest banking organization 
in the market, while the largest banking organization in the market con-
trols approximately 41 per cent of the deposits in the market. Applicant's 
subsidiary closest to Bank is located 11 miles away; however, since Bank 
is a new bank, consummation of the proposal would not eliminate any existing 
competition. Furthermore, in view of the fact that the market's present 
population to banking office ratio is three times the State average, it 
does not appear that acquisition of Bank by Applicant would significantly 
reduce the prospects of future expansion or entry by other banking organ-
izations in the State. The Board therefore finds that approval of the 
application would not eliminate any significant existing or future competi-
tion. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant 
and its subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory and consistent with 
approval of the application. Bank has no financial or operating history, 
but its prospects under Applicant's management appear favorable. 
Although there is nothing in the record to show that the major 
banking needs of the community are not being served, Bank would serve as 
an additional source of banking services, and thus convenience and needs 

.. _ 4776 
-3-
should be benefitted. Accordingly, it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be made (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after that date, and (c) Franklin National Bank, 
El Paso, Texas, shall be opened for business not later than six months after 
the effective date of this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) 
and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 7, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3/ Voting for this action: Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and 
Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell 
and Daane. 

4777 
Item No. 6 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
12/6/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
20551 
December 6, 1973 
Hie Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking. Housing 
and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Cha i rman: 
I am writing in response to your request for the Board's views on 
S. 2735, the Emergency Mortgage Credit Act of 1973. 
Title I of the bill provides full Federal insurance of the deposits 
of governmental units and increases Federal deposit insurance cov-
erage to $50,000. 
With regard to providing full insurance of public deposits, the 
Board believes that it would be unwise to provide full insurance 
of deposits of public bodies at institutions insured by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance 
Corporation, and the National Credit Union Administration. 
One reason for our concern over this provision is that large amounts 
of Government obligations held by commercial banks are pledged as 
security against public deposits. 
Full insurance of these deposits 
would, in many cases, eliminate the necessity for banks to hold such 
obligations. 
For example, a provision of the U. S. Code (12. U.S.C. 
265) specifies that insured banks need not pledge security for the 
portion of U. S. Government deposits in the bank which are covered 
by deposit insurance. 
Although many financial institutions may 
continue to hold Government obligations without collateral require-
ments, it is clear that authorizing a full guarantee of deposits of 
public bodies will result in at least some decrease in demands for 
Government securities and an increase in the borrowing costs of 
governmental units, both at the State and Federal level. 
Moreover, if the principle of full insurance were later extended to 
cover private as well as public deposits, incentives for good bank 
management would be significantly weakened. 

4778 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
. 
Page Two 
The Board's unease about: the provisions of Title I is also associated 
with the proposed large increase in guarantees of other deposits--an 
increase in ceilings from $20,000 to $50,000. 
So large a rise in 
ceilings goes well beyond the rise in prices that has occurred since 
ceilings were last increased in December 1969. The Board believes 
that if any rise in ceilings is needed at this time, a modest in-
crease—on the order of $5,000-~is more justifiable. An excessively 
large ceiling would lessen incentives for prudent management of 
depository institutions. 
With regard to Title V, the Board has reviewed similar legislation 
in the past, and we note that S/2175, a bill introduced on July 13 
by Senator Brooke, is similar to Title V. 
The Board believes that it is desirable to provide national banks 
with sufficient flexibility in making real estate loans to meet the 
changing needs of consumers for both residential and non-residential 
mortgage credit. 
However, in order to safeguard the banks and con-
sumers from the use of such devices as "balloon payment" notes in 
connection with loans secured by real estate, the Board has consis-
tently supported provisions, such as in subsection "(g)", which 
authorize the Comptroller of the Currency to establish safeguards 
by regulation should this become advisable. The Board thus has no 
objection to the enactment of Title V. 
The Board prefers, nevertheless, the alternative approach of deleting 
the entire section 24 from the Federal Reserve Act and substituting 
the following sentence: 
"Any national banking association may make 
loans on the security of real estate to the extent authorized by 
regulations prescribed by the Comptroller of the Currency." 
(We 
note that section 302(b) of S. 2591, which encompasses the Admin-
istration's recommendations on reform of financial institutions, 
would repeal section 24, but no provision is made for promulgation 
of rules by the Comptroller of the Currency.) 
In the field of real estate loans, the ground rules have changed so 
much in the past few decades that the existing section 24 has become 
obsolete in some respects, and any amendment which specifies re-
strictions may become obsolete quickly. The approach we suggest 
would provide the supervisory authority primarily responsible for 
the safety and soundness of national banks with greater flexibility, 
while at the same time allowing for protection of the public interest. 
This approach also recognizes that real estate loans to one class of 
borrowers, such as home buyers, may require a different set of rules 
than would apply to more sophisticated borrowers, such as home 
builders. 

... 4779 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Page Three 
The Board also suggests including in Title V a provision included 
as section 3 of S. 2175. 
In accordance with a long-standing Board 
proposal, S. 2175 repeals the last sentence of section 10(b) of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 347b). 
Section 10(b) authorizes 
Federal Reserve Banks to extend credit to member banks secured sim-
ply by collateral regarded as satisfactory by the Reserve Banks. 
But extensions of credit under section 10(b) must be made at a 
penalty rate at least one-half of one percent higher than the 
discount rate. 
This contrasts with the lending provisions of 
section 13 of the Act, which allow Reserve Banks to extend credit 
to member banks at the discount rate if the credit extensions are 
secured by "eligible paper" or certain other limited types of 
assets. 
The result of this ancient distinction between "eligible" and 
"ineligible" paper is that many sound member bank loans cannot 
qualify as security for Federal Reserve advances except at the 
penalty rate of at least one-half percent above the discount rate 
fixed in the last sentence of section 10(b). Among the types of 
currently "ineligible" paper are loans insured or guaranteed by^ 
the Federal Housing Administration and the Veterans Administration. 
Allowing such assets to be used as collateral on credit obtained 
at the discount rate would enhance the attractiveness of such 
paper and tend to encourage member banks to increase their hold-
ings of such obligations. 
To prevent abuses, the Board would retain the authority to 
prescribe regulations on the extensions of such credit by the 
Reserve Banks. 
We therefore recommend the addition of the following sentence 
after line 6, page 26: 
"Sec. 502. 
The last sentence of Sec. 10(b) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 347b) is repealed." 
The Board has the following comments on the remaining provisions 
of S. 2735. First, without commenting on the substance of the 
changes proposed in Title II (lending and investment powers of 
Federal S & L's) and Title IV (down payment requirements and 
maximum mortgage amounts under Federal Housing Administration 
programs), the details of the provisions raise the question of 
whether such specific statutory language is needed. 
Given the 

4780 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Page Four 
desirability of assuring financial institutions, and FHA, appropriate 
leeway to adapt their operations to changing market needs, Congress 
might consider repealing unnecessary statutory details and substi-
tuting for them broad guidelines which could then be interpreted by 
regulation. 
We also question whether the provisions of sections 301(b) and 303(b) 
will assist, the secondary market for conventional mortgages, as they 
appear to be designed to do. 
The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corpora-
tion under section 301(b) and the Federal National Mortgage Association 
under section 303(b) would be allowed to buy an unlimited volume of 
seasoned conventional mortgage loans, but only if the seller warrants 
that he will reinvest the proceeds of the sale in residential mortgages 
within one hundred and eighty days. 
Such a limitation would make 
conventional home mortgage loans less liquid as secondary market 
instruments. 
This would follow because the investment attractiveness 
of such mortgages would be impaired by the imposition of restrictions 
on how investors could use the proceeds if they wish to sell the loans 
later to either FHLMC or FNMA. No such restrictions, of course, would 
apply to other purchasers. 
Finally, the Board notes that section 305 is directed to the narrow 
question of regulating conflicts of interest that may be associated 
with the operation of private mortgage insurance companies. 
There 
are presently pending before the Board applications filed under 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S,C. 1843(c)(8)) 
by bank holding companies seeking to conduct mortgage insurance activi-
ties. 
The Board on November 16 announced that it has scheduled an 
oral presentation for January 26 on the question of whether the under-
writing of mortgage guarantee insurance should be added to the list 
of activities that are closely related to banking and permissible for 
bank ho 1 d ing compa tries . 
In view of the relationship between section 305 on the one hand and 
the pending applications and rulemaking proceeding on the other, 
together with the timing of your request for the Board's views, we 
believe it would be inappropriate to express any views on section 305 
at this time. 
We understand that other agencies, in addition to the 
Board, are presently considering various aspects of the mortgage 
insurance industry, and Congress may wish to avail itself of the 
results of the agencies' undertakings before enacting legislation 
on this subject. 
We will, of course, make the results of our pro-
ceeding known to you as scon as we reach a decision. 

4781 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Page Five 
The Board appreciates the opportunity you have afforded us to submit 
our views on S. 2735, and we hope our comments will prove helpful to 
you and the other members of the Committee. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

_ 4782 
FEDfcRAt RESERVE SYSfEM 
I t e m N o . 7 
12/6/73 
THE ROYAL TRUST COI^AtiY 
Order Denying Acquisition of Information Systems Design, Inc. 
The Royal Trust Company, Montreal, Quebec, Canada ("Royal"), a 
foreign bank holding 
company within the meaning of § 225.4(g)(1)(iii) of 
Regulation Y, has applied for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(9) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act ("Act") to indirectly acquire Information Systems 
Design, Inc. ("ISD"), Oakland, California. 
Royal proposes to acquire Computel Systems, Ltd. ("Compute1"), 
a Canadian corporation that is primarily engaged in the business of 
1/ 
selling computer time. 
Royal proposes to acquire Computel in order to 
obtain an internal source of computer services that may increase efficiency 
and reduce Royal's cost of obtaining such services. 
ISD is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Computel that is also pri-
marily engaged in selling computer time. 
ISD provides other related 
services, including storage of information and programs on magnetic 
tecording devices, leasing remote terminal computer devices and telephone 
lines, and writing and developing computer programs. Royal proposes to 
indirectly acquire ISD contemporaneously with and as an incident to its 
acquisition of Computel. Pursuant to 5 225.4(g)(3) of Regulation Y and 
5 4(c)(9) of the Act, Royal has requested the Board to exempt its indirect 
acquisition of ISD from the prohibition against nonbanking interests con-
tained in 5 4 of the Act. 
1/ Although the data processing activities of Computel are broader than 
those permissible for a domestic bank holding company under § 4(c)(8) of 
the Act, 5 225.4(g)(2)(i) of Reg. Y provides that a foreign bank holding 
company may engage in direct activities of any kind outside the United 
States. 

_ 4783 
-2-
SectiOn 4(c)0) of 
Adt provides that the prohibitions of 
§ 4 shall not apply to the investments or activities of foreign bank hold-
ing companies that conduct the greater part of their business outside the 
United States if the Board by regulation or order determines that, under 
the circumstances and subject to the conditions set forth in the regula-
tion or order, 
the exemption would not be substantially at variance with 
the purposes of the Act and would be in the public interest. Royal has 
applied for a special exemption for its acquisition of ISD under 
5 225.4(g)(3) of Regulation Y, contending that such acquisition would be 
consistent with the purposes of the Act and would be in the public interest. 
In support of its request for an exemption pursuant to § 4(c)(9), 
Royal states 
that the acquisition of ISD is merely an incident to an 
essentially foreign transaction which would have no adverse effects in 
the United States . Although Royal's indirect acquisition of ISD is part 
of an essentially foreign transaction, a domestic bank holding company 
would be prohibited from acquiring a company engaged in the range of data 
2/ 
processing activities of ISD. 
The Board believes that the acquisition of 
a data processing company engaged in the range of activities of ISD could 
give a foreign bank holding company a competitive advantage over a domestic 
bank holding company and that the acquisition of such a company is inap-
propriate for a foreign bank holding company. Royal has not presented 
2/ Selling more than excess computer time, storing and processing informa-
tion that is not financial in nature, and developing programs that are not 
financial in nature are not permitted by the Board's data processing regula-
tion and interpretation unless sich data processing services are requested 
by a customer and are not otherwise reasonably available in the relevant 
market area (5 225.4(a)(8) of Reg. Y and 12 CFR 5 225.123). 

_ 4 7 8 4 
-3-
arguments that would support a contrary conclusion. On the basis of the 
foregoing and other considerations reflected in the record, the Board 
hereby denies Royal's request for an exemption pursuant to § 4(c)(9) 
to permanently acquire ISD. Since Royal proposes to indirectly acquire 
ISD simultaneously with its acquisition of Computel and as an incident to 
an essentially foreign transaction, the Board finds that it would be con-
sistent with the standards of § 4(c)(9) to permit Royal to temporarily 
acquire ISD and*to grant Royal a reasonable period of time in which to 
effect an orderly divestiture of ISD. On this basis, the Board hereby 
permits Royal to temporarily acquire ISD subject to the condition that 
Royal shall use its best efforts to divest ISD as soon as practicable 
after its acquisition of Computel, but in no event shall Royal retain 
any interest in ISD after two years from the date of its acquisition of 
Computel. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective December 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
3/ Voting for this action: Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher and 
Holland. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman B u m s and Governors Mitchell 
and Daane. 

K 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or THE- 
Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/6/73 
m--
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
5:0551 
A D O R E S S 
O F r i C I A l . 
C O H S E S P D N D E N C : 
T D 
T H E 
H O A U O 
December,6, 1973 
AIR NAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
The Royal Trust Company 
630 Dorchester Boulevard, West 
Montreal 101, Quebec 
Canada 
• 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has denied 
the request by The Royal Trust Company to permanently acquire Information 
Systems Design, Inc., Oakland, California. 
However, the Board has granted 
The Royal Trust Company permission to temporarily acquire Information 
Systems Design because such acquisition is an incident to an essentially 
foreign transaction. 
The temporary acquisition of Information Systems 
Design is subject to the condition that The Royal Trust Company divest 
itself of all interest in Information Systems Design as soon as practicable 
but in no event later than two years from the date of such temporary ac-
quisition . 
Enclosed 
is material related to the Board's action. 
Notification of 
the fact of the.temporary acquisition should be 
given in writing 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldbferg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
of 
the Board 
Enclosures: 
1. Press Release 
2. Order 

4786 
Item No. 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/6/73 
CEDAR HOLDINGS LIMITED, BANKERS 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Cedar Holdings Limited, Bankers, London, England, has applied 
for the Board1s approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of up to 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Chester National Bank, Chester, New York ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, organized under British law, is engaged primarily 
in second mortgage lending through offices in London and Glasgow, 
1/ 
Scotland and holds deposits of $94.7 million. Applicant also controls 
four nonbank subsidiaries; neither Applicant nor its subsidiaries 
engage in business activity within the United States. 
Bank, which controls deposits of $45.3 million, operates in 
both the Middletown and Mid-Hudson markets. It is the sixth largest 
of 15 banks in the Middletown market and the nineteenth largest of 
26 banks in the Mid-Hudson market. It controls 6.0 per cent and 1.1 
per cent of total deposits in those two markets, respectively. 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1972 

-2-
4787 
The proposed plan of acquisition includes a tender offer to 
all common shareholders of Bank to acquire up to 51 per cent of total 
outstanding shares of Bank. As British exchange controls restrict 
investments in a foreign bank by organizations such as Applicant 
(which is not considered a "bank" for exchange control purposes) to 
20 per cent of a foreign bankrs total shares outstanding, Applicant 
will divest all shares acquired over 20 per cent to its institutional 
shareholders. Applicant will then propose a rights offering, whereby 
all shareholders of Bank^ common stock will be entitled to purchase 
an additional share for each share held. All unexercised rights 
will be publically auctioned and Applicant and its institutional 
shareholders will be free to purchase rights so auctioned and there-
fore increase their combined holdings (Applicant would still hold 
20 per cent; the overage to be assumed by the institutional share-
holders) « 
Since Applicant does no business in the United States, it 
is clear that consummation of the proposal would eliminate no exist-
ing .or likely potential competition between Applicant and Bank. 
Adequate banking services are presently offered in the relevant 
market area. Bank presently provides limited retail banking services 
and Applicant^ proposal to offer its expertise in international 
financing would at best be of limited benefit to Bank and its custo-
mers. Thus, the convenience and needs of the community will be 
minimally served by approval of the application. 

, _ 4788 
-3-
The managerial and financial resources of Applicant are 
generally satisfactory, while those of Bank are considered fair. 
Bnak is somewhat undercapitalized and Applicant plans to meet its 
capital needs. Banking factor considerations lend only slight 
weight toward approval of the application. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons set forth in the Board's Order of this date. The 
transaction shall not be made (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the effective date of this Order of (b) later than 
three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 10, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Sheehan, 
Bucher and Holland. Voting against this action: Governor Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, and DAaue. 

4789 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I would disapprove the application by Cedar Holdings Limited, 
Bankers, to acquire The Chester National Bank. 
I would do so because 
I see no public benefits to support approval while there are some 
risks that adverse effects may result. 
The fact that Applicant will control only 20 per cent of the 
common stock of Bank makes it clear that the proposed acquisition is 
more an investment undertaking than a serious commitment to' the busi-
ness of managing and controlling banks. As I have previously stated 
F.R. Bull. 456 (1973)), such an undertaking is not an appropriate 
activity for a holding company, is contrary to the intent of the 1970 
Amendments, and performs a disservice to the interest of stockholders 
of the acquired bank and to other holding companies. On this basis 
alone, the application should be denied. 
Further, the Board generally has required that an Appli-
cant demonstrate that it will be a source of strength for its 
subsidiary bank. It is improbable - given Applicant's investment 
orientation toward Bank and the circumstances of this application -
that Applicant will be such a source of strength. While it is true 
that Applicant plans to alleviate Bank's immediate capital deficiency, 
there is little evidence that improvements in the overall condition 
of Bank are a reasonable prospect. Applicant has signed seven year 
employment contracts with two of the present senior officers of Bank. 

-36-
47yo 
Applicant does not propose to allocate any of its managerial resources 
to Bank on a full-time basis. 
Instead, it will merely send representa-
tives from London as necessary. Since the expertise which Applicant 
plans to make available to Bank is in the field of international finance, 
neither the representatives sent to aid Bank nor any other proposed 
assistance will be of more than minimal benefit to Bank. Therefore, 
it seems that the overall condition and operation of Bank will in no 
way be improved by Applicant's plan of acquisition. 
Since I discern 
no public benefits in this application, I would not find approval 
to be in the public interest. 
December 10, 1973 

. 4791 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o- 
1 0 
12/6/73 
LLOYDS BANK LIMITED AND 
LLOYDS FIRST WESTERN CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Companies 
Lloyds Bank Limited, London, England ("Lloyds Bank") 
and its wholly-owned subsidiary Lloyds First Western Corporation, 
Wilmington, Delaware ("Lloyds First Western"), have applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of bank holding companies 
through the acquisition of up to 100 per cent of the voting shares 
of First Western Bank and Trust Company, Los Angeles, California 
("Bank"). Lloyds First Western is a Delaware corporation recently 
organized by Lloyds Bank for the sole purpose of acquiring Bank 
and has engaged in no business activities and has no subsidiaries. 
Accordingly, the applications of Lloyds Bank and Lloyds First Western 
have been considered together and this Order contains the Board's 
findings and conclusions with respect to both such applications. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the applications and 
all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

_ 4792 
-2-
Lloyds Bank, with total consolidated assets of approximately 
$13.4 billion,!/ operates over 2,300 branches throughout England, 
Wales and the Channel Islands and, with its many subsidiary and 
associated companies, provides a comprehensive range of worldwide 
banking and financial services. Lloyds Bank and its banking subsidiaries 
control approximately $12.4 billion of deposits making Lloyds Bank 
the fourth largest commercial bank in Great Britain. Lloyds & Bolsa 
International Bank, Limited, London, England, a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of Lloyds Bank, engages in banking activities in New York City through 
a branch office, which holds approximately $362 million of deposits. 
Lloyds Bank and its subsidiaries have no other banking offices in 
the United States. 
Bank, which operates 96 offices throughout California, 
is the eighth largest commercial bank in the State as it holds $1.1 bil-
lion of deposits representing 1.7 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State.!/ Since Lloyds Bank and its subsidiaries 
do not compete with Bank in any of the relevant banking markets 
in California which Bank serves, consummation of the proposal would 
eliminate no existing competition, nor would it have a significant 
effect on the concentration of banking resources in any relevant 
area. 
1/ All banking and financial data pertaining to Lloyds Bank and its 
subsidiaries are as of December 31, 1972 and reflect a conversion 
rate of h 1 = $2.3465. 
2/ All banking data for Bank are as of June 30, 1973. 

-3-
4793 
Although Lloyds Bank could enter any of the local banking 
markets in California served by Bank either de novo or through the 
acquisition of a smaller bank, the acquisition of Bank by Lloyds 
Bank would not have an adverse effect on potential competition 
because consummation of the proposal would not give Lloyds Bank 
a dominant share of the banking resources in any market served by 
Bank, nor would it appear to foreclose the entry of other banking 
organizations into any such markets. Moreover, it appears that 
consummation of the proposal may increase competition, as affiliation 
with Lloyds Bank should make Bank a stronger and more vigorous competitor 
of other California banks in local banking markets throughout the 
State. Accordingly, the Board concludes that competitive considerations 
are consistent with approval of the applications. 
The financial and managerial resources and the future 
prospects of Lloyds Bank and its subsidiaries appear satisfactory. 
Since Lloyds First Western is a nonoperating corporation organized 
for the sole purpose of acquiring Bank, its prospects depend entirely 
upon those of Bank. The financial condition and future prospects 
of Bank appear satisfactory in view of the twofold commitment of 
Lloyds Bank through Lloyds First Western to inject an additional 
$10 million in capital into Bank as soon as practicable after consumma-
tion of the proposal, and to increase Bank's capital in the future 
by reducing Bank's level of dividend payments, which have been high 

4734 
-4 
under its present owners.—^ Though Bank's management is considered 
satisfactory, Bank has suffered from high management turnover due 
to several changes in ownership during the past 12 years and uncertainty 
concerning the future ownership of Bank.A/ Approval of the proposed 
transaction would provide Bank with needed managerial stability 
and depth and would make available to Bank's management the knowledge 
and experience of the staff of Lloyds Bank, especially in the areas 
of international and wholesale banking, where Bank has not been 
3/ Bank disbursed dividends averaging 67.8 per cent of net income in 
the period 1969-1972. 
4/ Bank was established by Western Bancorporation in 1961 pursuant 
to an agreement with the Antitrust Division of the United States 
Department of Justice for the settlement of certain antitrust litigation 
then pending against Western Bancorporation. The Board approved 
this acquisition of Bank, a proposed new bank, by Western Bancorporation 
(then named Firstamerica Corporation) in its Order of January 27, 
1961 (47 Federal Reserve Bulletin 157). In 1963, Bank was sold 
to Greatamerica Corp., Dallas, Texas, which owned no other banking 
organizations. Bank was again sold in 1968 to Worldamerica Investors 
Corp., its present owner, a wholly-owned subsidiary of World Airways, 
Inc., Oakland, California, which both became one-bank holding companies 
as a result of the 1970 Amendments to the Act. World Airways, Inc. 
is a certified U. S. Supplemental Air Carrier providing charter 
carriage of passengers and cargo in and between the United States 
and many foreign countries and apparently has held Bank primarily 
as an investment. A proposed merger of Bank into Wells Fargo Bank, 
N.A., San Francisco, California, was approved by the Comptroller 
of the Currency on December 20, 1971, conditioned upon divestiture 
by Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. of all Bank's northern California banking 
offices to another bank approved by the Comptroller. On January 17, 
1972, consummation of the merger was enjoined by an antitrust action 
instituted by the Antitrust Division of the United States Department 
of Justice, which alleged that the transaction would violate the 
provisions of the Clayton Antitrust Act. In October, 1972, the 
merger agreement between Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was terminated 
due to the inability of the parties and the Antitrust Division to 
reach a mutually agreeable settlement. 

4795 
-5-
an aggressive competitor relative to its size. In addition, as 
previously noted, these increased financial and managerial resources 
should significantly strengthen Bank's ability to compete with other 
California banks. Thus, considerations relating to the financial 
and managerial resources of Bank lend weight toward approval of 
the application. There is no evidence in the record to indicate 
that the banking needs of the areas served by Bank are not being 
met. However, the proposed acquisition, by increasing the financial 
and managerial resources available to Bank, would enable Bank to 
offer a wider range of services, particularly in international and 
wholesale banking. In retail banking, Bank would once more be able 
to open new branches, thus increasing services and competition in 
local banking markets throughout the S t a t e T h e r e f o r e , the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served lend some weight toward 
approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
In connection with the present application, Lloyds Bank 
has also applied for the Board's permission to retain its indirect 
investments in the voting shares of Balfour, Williamson, Inc., New 
York City, and of Export Credit and Marketing Corporation, New York 
5/ Bank has not opened any new branch offices in California since 
1970. 

4796 
-6-
City ("ECMC"), and of ECMC's wholly-owned subsidiaries Drake America 
Corporation, New York City, Drake America Corporation (P.R.), New 
York City, and Export Credit Corporation, New York City. These 
matters will be the subject of separate consideration by the Board 
under § 4(c)(9) of the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
made (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause 
by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors ,6./ effective December 10, 
1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
6/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, 
Sheehan and Holland. Present and abstaining: Governor Bucher. Absent 
and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
