MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 20, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, July 20, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 
!0:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. 
In a memorandum of July 17, 1973, the 
n °f Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of a letter 
t h e Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs in 
sPonse to a request by several members of the Committee that the 
Board examine the feasibility and desirability of requiring uniform 
RiethnH 
s of interest rate computation on savings deposits. During 
^ 
Othe 
thoGr ° f f i c e r s a n d s t a f f of the division also were present during 
economic and financial review. 

Aw" t x}l 
7/20/73 
_2_ 
discussion at today's meeting, it was understood that efforts would 
b e made to utilize Federal Reserve System resources and personnel to 
conduct the study rather than an outside consultant as had been 
recommended in the memorandum. Following agreement on certain changes 
ln the proposed response, the Board unanimously approved a letter to 
t h e Committee in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of the Bank 
0 f ^ e Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, to establish an in-town 
br 
a n C h a n d t o m a k e a n additional investment in bank premises. A copy 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Wells 
Par 8° Bank, National Association, San Francisco, California, for 
Permiss in 
t o establish, on a contingency basis, a branch in George-
town Gr 
» 
rand Cayman, Cayman Islands, British West Indies. A copy of 
the lettp 
G r sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The First 
Nat * 
l 0 n a l B a n k o f Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia, for permission to establish 
^ ^ 
£1 
P/-VJ- 1. « mgency basis, a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman 
Elands R • 
' British West Indies. A copy of the letter sent to the appli-
cant 
a,„ 
attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its 
9pProval > on June 20, 1973, of the application of First New Mexico 

.v i «..>• 
7/20/73 
_3 _ 
Bankshare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico, to acquire shares of 
Clovis National Bank, Clovis, New Mexico. Attached under Item No, 5 
a r e coPies of the order and the dissenting statement of Governors 
Brimmer and Holland. 
The Board authorized issuance of orders reflecting its 
aPproval, on June 21, 1973, of the following related applications: 
(!) CleveTrust Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware, to become a bank 
h°lding company through acquisition of the successors by merger to 
Th 
Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio; (2) The Cleveland Trust 
G°mpany of Painesville, Painesville, Ohio, to acquire certain assets 
and 
assume certain liabilities of The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, 
°hi0; ( 3) T h e c l e v e l a n d T r u s t company of Lorain, Lorain, Ohio, to 
CC|Uire certain assets and assume certain liabilities of The Cleveland 
T r u st Company, Cleveland, Ohio; and (4) The Cuyahoga Bank, Cleveland, 
0hio f-
' c o merge with The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio. 
p i e s of the orders are attached under Item No. 6. In related actions 
June 21, the Board also (a) denied the requests of protestants on 
these 
applications that a hearing be held and that consideration of 
the hold* n8 company application be postponed pending disposition of 
CUrrent litigation; and (b) approved applications for membership in 
the pej 
Gral Reserve System by The Cleveland Trust Company of Paines-
T h e Cleveland Trust Company of Lorain, and The Cuyahoga Bank. 

, A* i 
7/20/73 
_ 4_ 
Copies of the letters sent to counsel for the protestants are attached 
U n d er Item No. 7. Copies of the letters approving the membership 
applications are attached as Items 8-10. 
The Board unanimously approved letters to (1) Cameron Finan-
Clal Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina, advising that it is not 
entitled to indefinite grandfather privileges under the Bank Holding 
c°mpany Act with respect to Courier Express Corporation, and (2) 
counsel for Purolator Courier Corporation denying requests that the 
° a r d fonduet a formal hearing and consider additional information in 
nnection with the review of Cameron Financial Corporation's possible 
8 a n d f a ther privileges with respect to courier activities. Copies of 
t h e letters are attached as Items 11 and 12. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Computer installation in Martin Building. Governor Holland 
referred t-C o his memorandum to the Board of July 12, 1973, regarding a 
teCQrv. 
Nidation by the Division of Data Processing for the installation 
of a a new 
computer system in the Martin Building, and reported that he 
Planned tn approve such recommendation under authority delegated to 
him by {-u 
e Board. During the discussion that ensued, no ob jection was 
a t G d t o the course of action referred to by Governor Holland. 
review. The regular weekly economic and financial 
s Presented. Copies of the statistical materials prepared 

2 7 6 1 
7/20/73 
_ 5-
for the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
o f the individual briefings. 
All staff members except Messrs. Melnicoff and Feldberg then 
Wlthdrew from the meeting. 
Richmond Presidency. Governor Holland reported on the 
latest information obtained with respect to possible candidates for 
t h e Presidency of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. After discus-
Sl0r*, it was understood that the matter would be brought back to the 
° 3 r d f o r further consideration and possible final action next week. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2 7 6 2 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
Item No. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
7/20/73 
Julv 25 1973 
•j^e Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
ornmittee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
jilted States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
X S Y-YV 
„ 
T 
writing in response to your request of June 29 that the 
conduct a study to examine both the feasibility and 
oi)Scirabll]'ty ° f r e cI u i r i ng uniform methods of rate computation 
C Q 's^Vlngs deposits in connection with your Committee's 
Wiu SK d e r a t i° n ° £ " T r u t h i n Savings" legislation. The Board 
is a 
? l e a s e d to undertake this study, and while the task 
end 
o n e» w e w i l 1 endeavor to have it completed by the 
the year as you requested. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

2 7 6 3 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON. 
D. 
C. 20551 
O F 
T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 2 
7/20/73 
July 20, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Bank of the Commonwealth 
Detroit, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
^Proves the establishment of an in-town branch of your bank 
Mi h' 
W a l k e r C i s l e r Building, One Edison Center, Detroit, 
'-c igan, provided the branch is established within six months from 
c n e date of this letter. 
f 
T h e Board also approves, under the provisions of Section 
Pre • 
F c d e r a l R e s crve Act, an additional investment in bank 
abr>miSeS 
i n connection with the establishment of the 
°ve-mentioned branch. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

. 
2 7 6 4 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
/ ' i i S L ^ c T . . . 
o f 
t h e 
Item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/20/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S , 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 20, 1973 
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 
a n ^ancisco, California 
94120 
GentlCmen: 
. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
Permission to Welis Fargo Bank, National Association C'WFB"), San 
the11"1"8-00' California, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of 
Caym federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in George Town, Grand 
t a ^ a n > 
C ay : n a u Islands, British West Indies, and to operate and main-
- such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of 
Ke8ulation M 
t^-j-jj 
lr> granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
toe.arlc e usec* 
chive 1 oping new international business and not as a 
it -i^ 
suifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
Publi«&!'S° U D C* G r s tood that there is to be. no contact with the local 
may 'C
t
a!: t be branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
3 
least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
f 0 l > o . 
view of the special character of this operation, the 
of 
r)erruission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
or lno1?°< ^P-s of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
a8aia.. Xec*> 
the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
^itho!1 d e p o s i t 3 l n this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
t . i . o r / 2 o i ; 
Llie exclusions in provisos (1) and (2) of Sec-
tion „ 
and (3) the further condition that adequate informs-
branch's operations will be maintained at vour head 
SriI"itati" 
^ be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
in tho. ^0^* 
'e Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
l n % t 
, 
methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
1J-c.h services are supplied to the branch. 
8ll^ject 
G mission to establish the proposed branch is also granted 
^ithiu o-° V° e c o n a-tion that WFB shall liquidate its Nassau branch 
S l x months of opening of the branch in George Town. 

'76 
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before August 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall 
^^ deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
eserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
_urnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
oard should also be promptly informed of any future change in l.oca~ 
"i0n 
the branch in George Town. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
Un,y a t a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
••-ted States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limita-
. 0 n s 
rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the re-
v e Requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these 
options is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to 
Ion 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has 
tQ « been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System 
of T1
1"?COuraSe deposits by United States residents at foreign branches 
n j 
States banks unless such deoosits have been placed to serve 
x de.fi m' i- 
' 
, 
tia'--* " ' » necessary purpose in connection wxr.h foreign or inter-
transactions outside the United States. 
"ith respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
tal ' i°vided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
Puro 
C v a n c e s j or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for 
coric°S-eS 
f°rGign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board' 
atlCe
 
v?J'-th minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the bal-
tb- i- . Pay?nents} the above consent is given with the understanding 
Jj-. 
j.t 
„ 
c' 
c 
be nj. 
conduct of the branch s operations maximum reliance will 
ii; * "acec* on resources obtained outside the United States, Accordingly 
e r S t 0 0 c ! 
ariy investment required will be. made within the 
its i/f1-1. 
^estraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and 
t ilia lies. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

2 7 G 6 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
7/20/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O ^ R E S P C N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
July 20, 1973 
h e First National Bank of Atlanta 
0. Box 4148 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30302 
Gentlenien: 
i t s 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
s permission to The First National Bank of Atlanta ("FNBA"), Atlanta, 
^eorsri r, 
S e r
 
5 P^suant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Re-
l 8 l
v V * t , to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman 
sub* 
S j 
West Indies, and to operate and maintain such branch 
J®ct to the provisions of such Section arid of Regulation M. 
Vixi 
Slanting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
iru;.iu
 
e _used for developing new international business and not as a 
•r. s 
shirting loans or deposits from offices in die United States. 
It 
Publi, 
IS a'l: 0 understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
may 
a t t*lc branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
' 
least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
Soitirr , 
";n v ^ e w of the special character of this operation, the fore-
types 1)err0j-Ssio11 is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
(2) the"1" 
C l ^ t i e s , anc* after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, 
^Us h-'c°P^ition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
a*el U s i
a n* h u n d c r Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
fvirth,,v.°nS i n Provisos (1) and (2) of Section 213.7(b), and (3V/ the 
IT r rvn A * • 
t^ons vi'i- 
that adequate information covering the branch's opera-
t e 
!'c maintained at your head office and will be available to 
^I:°mntj \",utul l t s accredited representatives. 
The Board should be 
t:Loi/ 
fanned of any modification in the branch's methods of opera-
8upo|j 
deling changes in any contract under which services are 
t° the branch. 
Sukject t^ e^mission to establish the proposed branch is also granted 
T'7ithjn
 
t a e condition that FNBA shall liquidate its Nassau branch 
1 S XX r»r n)i 
"-•nuns of the opening of the Georgetown branch. 

The First National Bank of Atlanta -2-
2 7 6 7 
e 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
usiness on or before August; 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall 
G deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
V^serve Bank of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
ashing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
Quid also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
lG branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
G °nly at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
O f 
Hi*a 
it 
. 
(
11 United States and the District of Columbia are exempt frcm any 
tic)1 L a t^ o n s o n rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regula-
ble.11 
A l s°> deposits at such branches are not generally subject to 
e
 
ro-serve requirements o f Regulation D. The general purpose of thes 
pete^ ,l0US 
t 0 a ^ o w foreign branches of United States banks to com-
aoroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long 
UGen anrl 
• 
c\3'Sc 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to 
11 . v U age deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
" bank? unless such deposits have been placed to serve a 
tj.., ^lJ-te> necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international 
"actions outside the United States. 
P^ovid " 
^ raspect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
vanc
 
0 0 
*10mG office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
of 
° r otherwjsc) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
Wjt-% ie.*0re-ign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
1 TP j[ n •{ • • 
Payme 
" •i51nS the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
the conc]3 t a e a ^ o v e consent is given with the understanding that in 
on. 
of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed 
undAvl?Urces obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
Stood MVH- 
- 
• * 
c"Y 3- 
any investment required w n l be made within tne ror-
affilT ?'llt: Restraint Guidelines as they aoply to vour bank and its 
•nates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

2768 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/20/73* 5 
FIRST NEW MEXICO BANKSHARE CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First New Mexico Bankshare Corporation, Albuquerque, New 
MeXtc0> a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Cot&pany Act, has applied for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(3) 
o f ^ e Act (12 U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of 
e voting shares of the Clovis National Bank, Clovis, New Mexico 
("Bank"), 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
e 8 t e d Persons to submit comments and views has been given in accordance 
W i t h § 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and views has 
exPired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
tec<iived in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
( U U-S,C% 1842(c)). ' 
Applicant is the largest banking organization in New Mexico 
With aggregate deposits of $501.7 million, representing 22.8 per cent 
of t. 
total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking data 
ate 
Q s of December 31, 1972.) It presently controls six banks, 
n° l u d i ng Albuquerque National Bank (deposits $398*9 million), its 
6 a d bank and the largest bank in the State. The acquisition of Bank 
Posits of $40.1 million) would increase Applicant's control over 
CQJJJQJ 
r c ial bank deposits in New Mexico to 24.6 per cent. 
Bank is the largest of three banks in Curry County (the 
Vat*t banking market) and controls 43.4 per cent of total market 

2769 
-2-
dePosits therein. Bank is only slightly larger than the second ranking 
batlk» Citizens 3ank of Clovis (deposits of $39.8 million). The 
Srnalle8t hank in the market, The First National Bank of Clovis, is under 
P U r° h a s e contract to be an affiliate of another bank holding company. 
^PPlir 
^^cant is not presently represented in this banking market, and its 
cl°aest subsidiary to Bank is 110 miles distant. 
In its consideration of this matter, the Board has taken into 
C° U n t t h e comments of the United States Department of Justice, which 
^eluded that the proposal would have a significantly adverse effect 
c°ropetition in Clovis and in New Mexico as a whole. This recommenda-
tion 
W a s d u e to the Department's view that Applicant, as one of three 
®ignjrj 
leant potential entrants into Clovis, should be required to 
enter thi 
n is market de novo or through a less anticompetitive foothold 
^isitioj^ 
Th e Department was also of the view that the proposed 
c ion would adversely affect the future development of a more 
titiVe banking structure in New Mexico. 
!n answer to the Department's contention, Applicant stated 
t h a t it w 
a s unable to form a new bank in Clovis due to the economic 
Ptoblema f racing this community, and that the smallest bank in Clovis 
n o t 
Mailable to Applicant as a possible foothold acquisition. 
Applicant f 
£urther stated that it was not possible to make a valid com-
P a t i son b t-
etween New Mexico banking structure and that in Florida, New 
k» Alab ama or Texas, since such pertinent factors as New Mexico's 
P 
capita income, lack of an industrial base, and its population 

2770 
-3-
density figures preclude any such comparison. Finally, Applicant stated 
that n PProval of this application would not foreclose the formation of 
^•ilt 
e regional or Statewide bank holding companies, as the second 
*argest ri 
^xovis bank remains available for such a holding company as do 
Substantial number of New Mexico banks of similar size. 
The Curry County banking market is the smallest of seven major 
^rkets in N 
n New Mexico based on total commercial bank deposits of $73.4 
million 
n 
, , 
iovis (population of 28,000) is the County seat of Curry 
County, 
T h 
e economy of the area is dependent on three primary employers-' 
°at*non Air p °rce Base, the Atchison, Topeka, and Sante Fe Railroad, and 
diver8e acri 
cultural employment. The Curry County market appears to be 
rePresentati 
V e o f other markets in New Mexico as it is dependent on 
r e lati V G l y f 
ew industries or services and supported by a low population 
Given the population density in New Mexico of 8.4 inhabitants 
Scmare mil 
t, 
e ( w i t h Albuquerque being the only metropolitan area in 
G State havin 
o f
 
i n g a population of 50,000 or more), the Board views each 
tlle major hn 
Banking markets in the State as isolated local banking 
keta. 
^ 
Uue fcn t-K 
their wide separation, these markets are not susceptible 
lu ^ ^ J o l 
Eq
 dePosits 
is defined in this case as one with over $70 million 
In 
Hobbs T ° t h e r m a j ° r m a r k e t s i^lude Albuquerque, Sante Fe-
sen! dlt*on to 
L a s Cruces, Roswell, and Artesia-Carlsbad. 
i n two o f ! A l b u ( l u e r ^ e market, Applicant is at present repre-
W e U ) , 
r the other major markets (Sante Fe-Espanola and 

; 
2 7 7 1 
to e more detailed analysis in the form of a single Statewide market, 
Ir*deed, the distances separating these markets have created a tendency 
for 
r the people and banks in those markets to look toward the large 
inking structures in Arizona, Colorado and Texas for financial assis-
tatlCe» rather than to Albuquerque, 
It is against this background that the Board must juxtapose 
the four 
i 
ut multi-bank holding companies now operating in New Mexico, 
The second largest bank holding company in the State, Western 
Corporation, has five subsidiary banks, with total deposits of 
$278 2 
million, Although large, Western Bancorporation is not a dominant 
force in M 
au New Mexico. Its five subsidiaries tend to operate independently 
Of one an i-u 
another, and the holding company itself is prevented from further 
^isitions in New Mexico due to being headquartered in Los Angeles, 
Galif0 
The third largest bank holding company, Bank Securities, 
Inc. uD 
> "as eight subsidiary banks with combined total deposits of 
million, Its lead bank, American Bank of Commerce (deposits of 
$63 
million) is located in Albuquerque and is the fifth largest bank 
^ e st-o-
Late. Bank Securities, Inc., has lately undergone rapid ex-
P e n s ^ end has acquired no additional banks in recent months. The 
fo 
fourth end smallest of the bank holding companies in the State is New 
i c ° Bancorporation, Inc., with only two banks and $81.6 million in 
Po 
Thus 
d e p o s i t s 
T - 
u 
• xt has announced no plans to expand in the near future. 
c 
some time, first New Mexico Bankshare Corporation is likely to be 
° n I y benking organization in the State with the capability of 
6}(Pan8iQn tnrough a Statewide acquisition program. 

zrrz 
-5-
In a State such as New Mexico, the Board is cognizant of the 
Possibility that a holding company may be seeking to strengthen its 
p°sition at the expense of a competitor, or unduly raise the barriers 
to 
entry into significant banking markets within the State. In the 
Sard's view, these undesirable effects are not likely to occur in this 
01atter« Although banking concentration would be increased somewhat for 
State as a whole, the proposed acquisition will enhance a New 
Mew 
, 
c o bank holding company's ability to compete with other banks in 
e southweat region and further its ability to better serve the finan-
cial r 
requirements of New Mexico's residents. If Statewide concentration 
leveig f banking resources in New Mexico were the sole criteria upon 
th 
cne Board were to base its determination herein, it might 
nceivably be necessary to maintain the status quo of the present 
banki, 
n8 structure in the State. However, concentration of banking 
-"cces is 
only a proxy for the Board's use in determining the com-
itive factors in an application. In this case, the Board doubts 
1 8 in the best interests of New Mexico residents to apply a 
*igld 
standard of a predetermined concentration ratio. 
A similar view 
expressed previously, when the Board stated: 
"Similar changes in banking structure are taking place 
n the New England States, New Jersey, New York, Virginia, 
o^ida, Missouri and elsewhere. But there Is no presump-
j ,°n that 
the status quo in any State represents a competitive 
0 n
G 
» i n each case, the Board must base its determination 
the effect of the particular proposal before it. Congress 
a not yet given the Board authority to shape the banking 
C o
r u c ture of any State or area by initiating changes or by 
c fitting itself to a course of action with respect to appli-
ions which satisfy some pied<*t-«imined guidelines or some 
53qG* 0 f ^"^nfrnfion ratios." (56 Federal Rpporve Bulletin 
541. Emphasis in original.) 

2773 
-6-
Insofar as the local market is concerned, there is a heavy loan 
demand in the Clovis area, and Bank has had a continuing problem of loan 
de®atids exceeding available funds.~~ 
In an attempt to satisfy the large 
d e m a n d f o r agricultural loans, Bank has neglected both real estate 
tnortgagG lending and consumer financing. Applicant proposes to establish 
estate loan department and a consumer loan department in Bank, and 
h a s committed itself to make available $2 million for erxh department. 
addition, Applicant would augment Bank's inadequate capital position 
b y inActing $400,000 of additional equity capital. Finally, Applicant 
°Poses to introduce new data processing services, financial counseling, 
modern auditing procedures, and develop Bank's trust business. The 
availability of lendable funds and the proposed bank services 
greater 
^ Weight for approval of the application. In addition, the financial 
managerial resources of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank 
generally satisfactory and the future prospects of all appear 
rable. xt is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
h 
e in the public interest and that the application should be 
^Proved. 
°n the basis of all relevant facts contained in the record and 
li8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act, the application 
Is a 
oved for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall 
* o t be o 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
fectixr 
V e date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the 
CloVis
e
h
lo£m-to-deposit ratios of the first, second and third largest 
cetit f 0
 anlcs are 
70 and 84 per cent, respectively, versus 62 per 
r all banks in the State. 

? _ 277 
-7-
effective date of this Order unless such period is extended for good 
c*use by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
She V o t i n 8 f o r t h i s acti-On! Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Ho?i^an> 3nci Sucher. Voting against this action: Governors Brimmer and 
* land. 

' 
2 7 7 5 
n — 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS BRIMMER AND HOLLAND 
We would not approve this application. In our view, the anti-
competitive effects that stem from the proposal are not outweighed by the 
convenience and needs of the community. 
The adverse effects on future competition are pronounced in 
Clovis, Bank enjoyed an average asset growth of 16 per cent over the 
Past four years. Clovis has had an expanding population for over 20 
years. There is evidence of heavy loan demand. Thus, the area is an 
^tractive one for de novo entry. Applicant is not only one of the most 
likely entrants into this market but has the present capability to enter 
° n a ^ novo basis. The net result of the transaction is that the largest 
h°lding company in New Mexico will enter a major new market by acquiring 
the largest bank in the market, and the third largest independent bank 
iri ^ e State. We are of the opinion that the net result is anticom-
Petitive. 
There are only three banks represented in Clovis at the present 
t l m e' Bank controls 43 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in Clovis. 
X t now seems less likely that smaller holding companies will enter Clovis 
a n d compete against the largest holding company. If this transaction 
V 6 r e not consummated, Bank would still be a candidate for membership in 
a nev» less dominant holding company system that could compete with Appli-
C a n t in the future. The majority's action seemingly locks Clovis into a 
&ia> anticompetitive banking structure. 
Looking past Clovis to the competitive effect on the entire 
S t a t e, we find that the four largest holding company organizations in 
Mexico control 60.9 per cent of the commercial bank deposits. 
^PHcant is substantially larger than the second banking organization 
a U d is considerably atrengthened 
by acquiring the State's third largest 

2776 
-2-
independent bank. When we justapose the inability of the State's other 
b 
. 
1/ 
asking organizations to expand on a Statewide basis 
and the lack of 
2/ 
e 
c l e s for expansion, 
it becomes apparent that Applicant is now 
s°lidly entrenched as the dominant organization in the State. We are 
the opinion that the transaction prevents the possibility of eventual 
^concentration and apparently violates the mandate of the Supreme Court 
o f the United States as laid down in U.S. v. Philadelphia National Bank, 
3 7 4 U.S. 321, 365, fn. 42 (1963). As has been many times quoted, that 
tatement of the Supreme Court was "if concentration is already great, 
importance of preserving the possibility of deconcentration is cor-
resPondingly great." 
We further find that considerations of convenience and needs 
Of £1 e community lend insufficient weight for approval. The new capital 
^0 H 
e added to Bank could just as easily have been used to form a de novo 
Moreover, there does not appear to be sufficient evidence in the 
to justify a finding that the services which Applicant proposes 
to off 
-rer are, in fact, needed. Finally, we do not share the majority's 
that the transaction is justified because "the proposed acquisition 
enhance a New Mexico bank holding company's ability to compete with 
banks in the Southwest region and further its ability to better 
^ 
T h L t h e maJority Statement. 
. 
are only five indepen 
?25 million and Applicant 
e e markets containing the five banks. 
Over A 
a r e only five independent banks in the State with deposits of 
the 
miHion and Applicant is not presently represented in any of 

; _ 2 7 7 7 
-3-
serve the financial requirements of New Mexico's residents". We 
believe that in this case the inherent anticompetitive effects 
resulting from the combination of the State's largest holding com-
pany and the third largest independent bank in the State outweigh 
8uch considerations. 
On all the facts of record, we believe that the application 
should be denied. 
J u l y 20, 1973 

2778 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
7/20/73 
CLEVETRUST CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
CleveTrust Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware, has applied for the 
Sard's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the successors by merger to The Cleveland Trust Company, 
Cleveland, Ohio ("Bank1). Bank is to be merged into The Cuyahoga 
B a nk, which has no significance except as a means of acquiring the voting 
shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares 
o f the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisi-
of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
a n d the Board has considered the application and all comments received, 
Eluding those of, and evidence submitted by, The Lake County National 
of Painesville, Painesville, Ohio, and The Lorain County Savings & 
Tr 
U s t Co., Elyria, Ohio (hereinafter collectively referred to as 
Pr°testants"), in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

_ 2779 
- 2 -
Applicant is a newly organized corporation formed for the 
Purpose of becoming a bank holding company. Bank, with deposits of 
$2.4 biliion as of June 30, 1972, is the largest bank in the City of 
Cleveland and the State of Ohio. The Cleveland Trust Company of 
painesville, Painesville, Ohio ("Lake Bank"), a proposed new bank 
^Projected deposits of $72.1 million), would acquire the assets and 
assume the liabilities of Bank that are attributable to Bank's two branch 
offices located in Lake County. The Cleveland Trust Company of Lorain, 
L°rain, Ohio ("Lorain Bank"), a proposed new bank (projected deposits 
Of <joq _ 
million), would acquire the assets and assume the liabilities 
0f fiank that are attributable to Bank's branch office located in Lorain 
county. 
The proposal constitutes a corporate reorganization and 
^Presents no expansion of corporate interests.!/ Consummation of the 
Proposed transactions, therefore, would not eliminate either existing or 
Poteutiai competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
cant, Bank, Lake Bank, and Lorain Bank are regarded as generally 
°f A p p U 
atlsfactory and consistent with approval of the application. There is 
0 eviclence in the record that significant banking needs of the communities 
nv°lved are going unserved. Consummation of the proposal would, however, 
of 
a k e Bank and Lorain Bank may, in the future, expand through the opening 
la ,ew branch offices in their respective counties. However, such expansion 
that
ep®ncient upon securing the appropriate regulatory approvals, including 
o f the Board, at such time. 

2780 
result in the subsidiary banks in Lake and Lorain Counties having a greater 
°rientation toward the needs of the local communities than the present 
b r a n c h facilities. For example, as indicated below, the local 
management would have lending authority far in excess of that possessed 
by f-u _ 
n e present branch officers. These considerations are consistent with 
a n d l e n d s°me weight toward approval of the application. 
Section 7 of the Bank Holding Company Act reserves to the States 
Uch rights as they may have with respect to the regulation of banks. 
In 
view of this the Board has examined the contentions of Petitioners 
there is proposed such a unitary operation that Lake Bank and Lorain 
a n k W o uld be operated as branches of Bank in violation of Ohio law 
estricting branch banking to the county in which the head office of a 
a n k is located.1/ Protestants have requested that the Board hold a formal 
"earing on the application and have requested admission to the 
p °ceeding as parties. In view of the fact that the State Commissioner 
did n o t v 
recommend disapproval of the application, no hearing on the applica-
tion iq 
required by the Act. Further, upon examination of the record, 
it does r> 
not appear to the Board that there are any issues concerning the 
aPPH< 
-cation on which a formal hearing or oral presentation would be 
Useful * The requests are therefore denied. Protestants have further 
ested the Board stay its proceedings pending the final outcome of the 
State 
0urt litigation referred to hereinafter. In view of the decision 
the merits of Protestants' contentions the Board does not regard 
sUch a stay as appropriate. 
either S i S Pr°testants? primary contention. All of their contentions are 
Which 
res°lved by a resolution of this issue or are matters of State law 
a r e independent of the proposed holding company form of organization. 

-4-
2781 
The branching contention was made before the Ohio Banking Super-
intendent during the pendency of charter applications for Lake Bank and 
Lorain Bank. On the basis of the record before him, including the 
^anscript of, and exhibits submitted at, formal hearings on those 
applications,1/ the Ohio Banking Superintendent approved the formations 
of Lake Bank and Lorain Bank. Protestants appealed those decisions 
to the Ohio Court of Common Pleas which suspended the Superintendent's 
aPProval Orders. On February 28, 1973, that Court affirmed those Orders and 
exPressly concluded that neither Lake Bank nor Lorain Bank would constitute 
a branch of Bank. Protestants subsequently appealed those decisions 
to ^ e Ohio Court of Appeals, and the suspension Orders of the Ohio Court 
0f Common Pleas remain in effect. 
Bank's present branches in Lake and Lorain Counties are "grand-
fathered" under the Ohio law restricting branching and Bank may not 
br*nch further within those counties. As described above, the proposed-
U e w hanks would acquire the assets and assume the liabilities attributable 
to these branches. Each bank is to be a separate corporation with its own 
CaPital structure. While it may be said that the capital is derived 
ft 
° m Bank, it does not represent a use of Bank's capital to expand its 
ctivities but rather a segregation of capital attributable to deposits 
l t e a dy at those locations. Each of the proposed subsidiary banks 
Ulci he subject to separate regulation and have separate loan limits. 
tho 
testants have submitted to the Board copies of that transcript and 
on ® e*hibits, and the Board has made those materials part of the record 
^ it relies in this matter. 

... 2782 
-5-
^here will be no common directors between Bank and the other proposed 
subsidiary banks although certain of the directors will be former officers 
of Bank. Four of the six directors of each new bank will be local 
businessmen with no prior policy-making relationship with Bank. The 
Proposed managements will have complete control of the operations of the 
Proposed new banks. As an example, the new managements will have authority 
to make loans up to the lending limits of the banks, $650,000 and $250,000 
tesPectively, as opposed to the very restrictive limitations presently 
Placed on the branch managers of those offices. In every regard, customers 
of the proposed banks will be dealing not with Bank but with a separate 
c°rporate entity. 
While it is true that the proposed subsidiaries will obtain 
n e ability 
to branch in Lake and Lorain Counties, this is not in 
*tself probative on the question whether the proposal constitutes illegal 
ranching under Ohio law. Rather, this is a result of any holding company 
Cc^isition in the State, and such privileges could be obtained by the 
CcluiSition o f 
e Xi s ti ng bank in those counties, an acquisition which, 
if t, 
n e bank were to be operated as proposed in the record here, would not 
institute branch banking. Furthermore, it does not appear that Applicant's 
int e n t is necessarily to gain these privileges. Rather, Applicant wishes 
take advantage of the holding company form of operation for corporate 
HPansi0n in many areas, and the proposal stems in part from a concern 
that- a s a result of the reorganization it would lose its "grandfather'' 

.1 2 7 8 3 
-6-
ri§hts to the existing branches. On the basis of the record before it, 
t h e B°ard concludes that the proposal would not constitute a unitary form 
of operation prohibited by the Ohio laws restricting branching, but 
rather constitutes a termination of a unitary form of opera-
tion. 
It is the Board's judgment that the transaction would be in 
the 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
eaSoris summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
efore the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order, 
Of (r \ 
J later than three months after that date, and (c) Lake Bank and Lorain 
B*nk shall be opened for business not later than six months after the 
ec 
(e) 
ective date of this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and 
W a y k e extended for good cause by the 3oard, or by the Federal 
e Bank of Cleveland, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,A/ effective July 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
4/ v — 
Bttmmetin8 f° r t h i s a c t i o n : 
V i c e Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
r> Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 

2784 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CLEVELAND TRUST COMPANY OF PAINESVILLE 
Order Approving Acquisition of Assets and 
Assumption of Liabilities under Bank Merger Act 
The Cleveland Trust Company of Painesville, Painesville, Ohio 
("Appii 
has 
cant"), a proposed State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
aPPHed pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) for the 
Board1© 
prior approval to acquire certain assets and assume certain 
iabUities of The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio, under the 
charter ana name of Applicant and to operate a branch at Willoughby, Ohio, 
^t Whinh m, 
cr* The Cleveland Trust Company presently operates a branch office. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in 
approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has requested 
teP°rts °n competitive factors from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
of the p 
Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Board 
e°nsidered all relevant material contained in the record in the light 
of 
set forth in the Act. 
t h e Actors 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
teasons * 
summarized in the Board*s Order of this date relating to the applica-
tiotl of ci 
^J-eveTrust Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware, to form a bank holding 
y tbrough the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less 
Sector » 
s 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The Cleveland 
U s t Co 
mpany, Cleveland, Ohio. The transaction shall not be consummated 
} b*for 
r e the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 

2785 
-2-
(b) latet than three months after the date of this Order, and (c) 
Th 
e Cleveland Trust Company of Painesville, Painesville, Ohio, shall be 
°Pened for business not later than six months after the effective date 
0f this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be 
xtended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
^veland pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
f o r t h i s action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
mer> Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 

2786 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CLEVELAND TRUST COMPANY OF LORAIN 
Order Approving Acquisition of Assets and 
Assumption of Liabilities under Bank Merger Act 
The Cleveland Trust Company of Lorain, Lorain, Ohio ("Applicant"), 
a 
Proposed State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied 
aPpti 
Pursuant t o t h e B a n k M e r g e r A c t ( 1 2 U.S.C. 1028(c)) for the Board's prior 
0val to acquire certain assets of and assume certain liabilities of The 
6vsland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio, under the charter and name of 
^Plicant. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in form 
°ved by the Board, has been published and the Board has requested reports 
On 
c°mPetitive factors from the Attorney General, the Comptroller of the 
and t h e Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Board has 
iciered all relevant material contained in the record in the light of the 
r s set forth in the Act. 
°n the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating to the applica-
tlon of n 
^J-eveTrust Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware, to form a bank holding 
C°^PatiV t-v 
y trough the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less 
s 
qualifying shares) of the successors by merger to The Cleveland 
TrUst c ^mPany, Cleveland, Ohio. The transaction shall not be consummated 
W °re the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 

t: - 2 7 8 7 
later than three months after the date of this Order, and (c) The 
leveiand Trust Company of Lorain, Lorain, Ohio, shall be opened for business 
not later than six months after the effective date of this Order. Each of 
he Periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the 
• 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated 
a u t*ori t y. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
( sEAL] 
h VoT7r~ ~z—• 
Conner L 
t h i s a c t l o n : 
V i c e Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
» -heehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 

2788 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE CUYAHOGA BANK 
Order Approving Merger under Bank Merger Act 
The Cuyahoga Bank, Cleveland, Ohio ("Applicant"), a proposed State 
einber bank of the Eederal Reserve System, has applied pursuant to the Bank 
^ r g e r A ct (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) for the Board's prior approval to merge vith 
Cleveland Trust Gcmpany, Cleveland, Ohio, under the charter of Applicant 
name of The Cleveland Trust Company and to operate branches at the 
Cations at which The Cleveland Trust Company presently operates branch 
es» other than at Lorain, Painesville, and Willoughby, Ohio. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in form 
app 
° V e d by the Board, has been published and the Board has requested reports 
competitive 
factors from the Attorney General, the Comptroller of the 
r*ncy> and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Board has 
ered all relevant material contained in the light of the factors set 
0 t t h in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
°ns Sl 
^ti 
^aaono 
summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating to the appli-
o f CleveTrust Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware, to form a bank holding 
Coi&p 
y through the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less 
^tfcCtor i 
r s qualifying shares) of the successors by merger to The Cleveland 
T*Ust Cn 
company, Cleveland, Ohio. The transaction shall not be consummated 
befor 
u re the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) lat 
e r than three months after the date of this Order, and (c) the Cuyahoga 

. 
2 7 8 9 
- 2 -
ank» Cleveland, Ohio, shall be opened for business not later than six months 
f t e r the effective date of this Order. Each of the periods described in 
and ( c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
e S e r V e B a nk of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"^ effective July 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
i/ Vot? 
~ 
Brl®mer 
f° r t h l s a c t i o n I 
V i c e Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
> Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 

E D A R D D F G D V E R N D R ! 
, 2730 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
7/20/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R F< E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 20, 1973 
J°hn I). Hauke, Jr., Esq. 
Arnold & Porter 
1229 Nineteenth Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20036 
1)°ar Mr. Hawke: 
Enclosed please find copies of the Board's Orders and press 
Release of this date approving the applications of CleveTrust Corporation, 
'^Laington. Delaware, to become a bank holding company through, the 
acquisition of all (less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting 
shares of the. successors by merger to The Cleveland Trust Company, 
Cleveland, Ohio; of The Cleveland Trust Company of Painesville, Painesvill 
'Uo, to acquire certain assets and assume certain liabilities of The 
Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio; of the Cleveland Trust Company 
.7 Moraine, Loraine, Ohio, to acquire certain assets and assume certain 
^abilities of The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio; and of The 
uyahoga Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, to merge with The Cleveland Trust Company, 
leveland, Ohio. As is evident from those Orders, the Board in acting 
upon these applications considered the objections of your client, The Lake 
county National Bank of Painesville. 
In connection with this action, the Board has denied your 
client's requests that uhe Board conduct a formal public hearing on 
the bank holding company application and that the Board postpone 
consideration of that application pending disposition of certain suits 
Pending before the Ohio Courts. 
The Board is grateful for your expression of views on this 
Matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary c-f the Board 
^closures 
C c : 
Richard Pogue , Esq. 

•Bfe 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
OF" T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
^791 
ADDRESS OFriCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 20, 1973 
Wayne E. Davis, Esq. 
Masonic Building 
38121 Euclid Avenue 
Willoughby, Ohio 
44094 
Dear Mr. Davis: 
Enclosed please find copies of the Board's Orders and press 
Release of this date approving the applications of CleveTrust Corporation, 
aimington, Delaware, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of all (less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting 
Snares of the successors by merger to The Cleveland Trust Company, 
Cleveland, Ohio; of The Cleveland Trust Company of Painesville, Painesville, 
r,tl]'-°) to acquire certain assets and assume certain liabilities of The 
leveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio; of the Cleveland Trust Company 
of Moraine, I.oraine, Ohio, to acquire certain assets and assume certain 
liabilities of The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio; and of The 
uyahoga Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, to merge with The Cleveland Trust Company, 
leveland, Ohio. As is evident from those Orders, the Board in acting 
these applications considered the objections of your client, The Lake 
County National Bank of Painesville. 
In connection with this action, the Board has denied your 
lient's requests that the Board conduct a formal public hearing cn 
bank holding comnany application and that the Board postpone 
c°nsideraticn of that application pending disposition of certain suits 
Ending before the Ohio Courts. 
The Board is grateful for your expression of views on this 
matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
C l o s u r e s 
Q ^ . 
Kichard Pogue, Esq. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
o r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Z7'J2 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 20, 1973 
J« C. w. Tattersall, Esq. 
Koran, Ashenbach, Tattersall &-Gallagher 
504 Lorain County Bank Building 
Elyria, Ohio 
44035 
Dear Mr. Tattersall: 
Enclosed please find copies of the Board's Orders and press 
release of this date approving the applications of CleveTrust Corporation, 
Printington, Delaware, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of all (less directors1 qualifying shares) of the voting 
shares of the successors by merger to The Cleveland Trust Company, 
Cleveland, Ohio; of The Cleveland Trust Company of Painesville, Painesvill 
Okio, to acquire certain assets and assume certain liabilities of The 
Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio; of the Cleveland Trust Company 
of Loraine, Loraine, Ohio, to acquire certain assets and assume certain 
labilities of The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio; and of The 
Cuyahoga Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, to merge with The Cleveland Trust Company, 
Cleveland, Ohio. As is evident from those Orders, the Board in acting 
upon these applications considered the objections of your client, The 
Lorain County Savings & Trust Co. 
In connection with this action, the Board has denied your 
client's requests that the Board conduct a formal public hearing on 
«-he bank holding company application and that the Board postpone 
consideration of that application pending disposition of certain suits 
Pending before the Ohio Courts. 
The Board is grateful for your expression of views on this 
Matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B, Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^closures 
(:c: Richard Pogue, Esq. 

, 
av r 
J
u 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 8 
7/20/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
^ N D R E S 3 
O R N C I A I . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R O 
July 23, 1973 
Board of Directors 
The Cleveland Trust Company 
of Painesville 
Gainesville, Ohio 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
aPProves the application of The Cleveland Trust Company of 
Gainesville, Painesville, Ohio, for stock in the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland, effective if and when the bank opens for busi-
ness under appropriate State authorization, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made 
in the general character of its business or in the scope 
of the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $3,000,000, and other capital funds of not less 
than $5,450,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

K* •
 
L i 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
°f directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution, together 
with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
°f Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Beard is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, 
the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
Membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve 
System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means 
f°r making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^closure 

K r e s ^ . * ' 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
7/20/73 
A H D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 23, 1973 
Board of Directors 
The Cleveland Trust Company 
of Lorain 
Lorain, Ohio 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of The Cleveland Trust Company of Lorain, 
Lorain, Ohio, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appropriate 
State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter 
Set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope of 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $1,000,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$2,340,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution, together 
with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 
3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
t o the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advise 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, 
the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership 
xn the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^closure 

271)7 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
7/20/73 
A ' - . O R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 23, 1973 
Board of Directors 
The Cuyahoga Bank 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
aPproves the application of The Cuyahoga Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, 
f°r stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, subject to 
the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except 
the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that The Cuyahoga Bank will not conduct a banking business with the 
Public prior to its merger with The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, 
Ohio. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
tion H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

2798 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
I f at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member cf the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
°f directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

2 7 3 9 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R 5 
OF THE 
Item No. 11 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/20/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TCI T H E 
B O A R D 
July 20, 1973 
Cameron Financial Corporation 
301 South Tryon Street 
Charlotte, North Carolina 
28202 
Gentlemen: 
In connection with a review of the "grandfather" privileges 
of Cameron Financial Corporation (undertaken pursuant to the proviso 
i n § 4(a)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended), the Board 
°f Governors of the Federal Reserve System has concluded that indefinite 
grandfather benefits to which Cameron Financial Corporation may be 
entitled under the Act do not cover the operations of Courier Express 
Corporation since that company did not become a subsidiary of Cameron 
financial Corporation until after June 30, 1968 (although prior to 
December 31, 1970). 
On the basis of information presented to the Board, it 
appears that First Union National Bank, Cameron Financial's subsidiary 
hank, may have engaged directly in certain courier activities cn and 
before June 30, 1968. However, Cameron Financial Corporation was not 
engaged directly, or through a nonbank subsidiary, in providing such 
services. In the Board's judgment, the grandfather proviso in § 4(a)(2) 
o f the Bank Holding Company Act does not relate to an activity engaged 
iri directly by a bank. Accordingly, since Cameron Financial Corporation 
W as not engaged on June 30, 1968, in providing courier services other 
than through First Union National Bank, the Board concludes that no 
indefinit: e° gr andfather benefits accrue to Cameron Financial with respect 
t o the activities carried on by Courier Express Corporation. 
In view of the comments and request for hearing filed by 
^urolator Courier Corporation (formerly American Courier Corporation) 
Relating to the Board's review of the grandfather privileges of Cameron 
financial Corporation, a copy of the Board's decision in this matter, 
namely, this letter, is being forwarded to Furolator. On the basis of 
M
P 
lip 

2800 
Cameron Financial Corporation 
-2-
the Board's decision herein, Purolator's request for a hearing and its 
motion of June 25, 1973, for Board consideration of additional material, 
both in connection with a grandfather review of courier activities of 
Cameron Financial, are regarded by the Board as moot and both are denied. 
A copy of the Board's letter to Purolator Courier Corporation on this 
subject is enclosed for your infomation. 
The above discussion relates only to the Board's consideration 
o f indefinite grandfather privileges with respect to the courier activities 
Cameron Financial Corporation. The Board currently has under con-
sideration and review the grandfather privileges to which Cameron Financial 
Corporation may be entitled with respect to other activities. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 
20551 
2801 
Item No. 12 
7/20/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 20, 1973 
Samuel K. Abrams, 
Morrison, Murphy, 
!776 K Street, N. 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Mr. Abrams: 
Esq. 
Abrams & Haddock 
W. 
20006 
This refers to your motion dated June 25, 1973, submitted 
behalf of Purolator Courier Corp. (formerly American Courier 
Corporation) and to your earlier motion requesting that the Board 
conduct a formal hearing, both motions in connection with.the Board's 
rGvie.w, under § 4(a)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act, of the grand-
father privileges of Cameron Financial Corporation, Charlotte, North 
Carolina (formerly First Union National Bancorporation). 
In connection with the aforementioned review of Cameron 
Financial Corporation, the Eoard of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System has today notified Cameron Financial that the Board has concluded 
^hat Cameron Financial Corporation is not entitled, under the proviso 
i n § 4(a)(2) of the Act, to indefinite grandfather privileges with respect 
t o the activities of Courier Express Corporation, inasmuch as that com-
pany was not a subsidiary of Cameron Financial Corporation on June 30, 
•^68, and Cameron Financial Corporation was not engaged either directly, 
° r through a nonbank subsidiary, in providing courier services on such 
date. i n v.iew of this conclusion, the June 25 motion on behalf of 
?urolator (for consideration by the Board of additional materials) and 
^relator's request for a formal hearing, boch in connection with the 
grandfather review of courier activities of Cameron Financial Corporation 
are- moot and are, respectively, denied. A copy of the Board's letter 
a°tlfying Cameron Financial Corporation of the Board's conclusion is 
enclosed for your information. 

2802 
Samuel K. Abrams, Esq. 
-2-
On the basis of information before the Board, it appears that 
Courier Express Corporation became a subsidiary of Cameron Financial 
Corporation during the period from June 30, 1963, to December 31, 1970; 
and, on this basis, Cameron Financial Corporation would be permitted, 
under provisions of § 4(a)(2) of the Act, to continue to hold shares in, 
and thereby engage in activities of Courier Express Corporation until 
December 31, 1980. 
In connection with the Board's consideration cf the nature 
o f the activities in which Cameron Financial has authority to engage 
until December 31> 1980, and whether the courier services which that 
company will provide to the Richmond Reserve Bank constitute activities 
within said authority, the Board welcomes any comments, information, 
material you care to submit bearing on that consideration. 
A copy of this letter is being sent to Cameron Financial 
Corporation for its information. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 
