MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 2, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act entries covering the items in this set of 
minutes commencing on the pages and dealing with the subjects 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Amendment to Regulation T, Credit by 
Brokers and Dealers. 
Page 
6 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago, 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 2, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented, 
including comments on current problems with respect to float. Copies 
of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been placed 
in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1/2/73 
-2-
Mr. Rippey then commented on Congressional developments of 
special interest to the Board. 
Staff members who had attended only for purposes of the 
review then withdrew and the following entered the room: 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Messrs. Althausen and Guinter, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Egertson and Lyon, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a proposed 
issuance of capital notes by First Citizens Bank, Billings, Montana. 
A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved an investment in bank premises 
in excess of statutory limitations by Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, 
Michigan. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of BancOhio 
Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of The Capital National 
Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of (1) BancOhio 
Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
to The Peoples Savings Bank Company, Delta, Ohio; and (2) The Delta Bank, 

1/2/73 
-3-
Delta, Ohio, to merge with The Peoples Savings Bank Company, also of 
Delta. The Board authorized issuance of orders reflecting these 
decisions. Copies of the orders are attached as Items 4 and 5. In a 
related action the Board unanimously approved the application of The 
Delta Bank for membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of 
the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 6. 
After a d iscussion during which there was agreement upon changes 
in the language of a draft that had been distributed, the Board authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting its action on October 31, 1972, condi-
tionally approving the applications of First City Bancorporation of 
Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire the successors to Highland 
Village State Bank, also of Houston, and First State Bank of Clear Lake 
City, Clear Lake City, Texas. A copy of the order is attached under 
Item No. 7. along with a copy of the statement by Governors Daane and 
Sheehan concurring in part and dissenting in part. The Board also 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting its action, also on October 31, 
1972, denying the applications of First City Bancorporation of Texas to 
acquire the successors to South Main Bank and Heights State Bank, both 
also of Houston. A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 8, along 
with a copy of the dissenting statement by Governors Daane and Sheehan. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Banks containing a revised rule for requiring that in certain circumstances 

1/2/73 
-4-
bank holding companies provide certified financial statements in their 
annual reports filed with the Board. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 9. 
The Board unanimously approved an amendment to Regulation T, 
Credit by Brokers and Dealers, effective January 2, 1973, to clarify 
the computation of the "90-day freeze" provisions for special cash 
accounts. A copy of the Federal Register notice is attached as Item No. 10. 
On December 11, 1972, the Board approved publication for comment 
of a proposed revision of Appendix A of Regulation P, which implements 
the Bank Protection Act. At today's meeting the Board unanimously 
approved a related press release and a letter requesting that the Federal 
Reserve Banks take certain measures looking toward strengthening both 
the Act and Regulation P. Copies of the press release, Federal Register 
notice, and letter to the Reserve Banks are attached under Item No. 11. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First Florida Bancorporation. On October 31, 1972, the Board 
voted to deny the application of First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, 
Florida, to merge with United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Miami Beach, 
Florida. Before an order to implement that decision was prepared, 
representations were received from United Bancshares of Florida that 
since the application was filed the structure of banking in Dade County 
had changed significantly and that, if the Board were disposed to deny 

1/2/73 
-5-
the application on competitive grounds, further presentation should 
be allowed with respect to that aspect of the case. The staff, having 
considered the additional information submitted, reiterated its recom-
mendation of denial. At the meeting on November 30, 1972, the Board 
agreed to reconsider the case and requested additional analysis. On 
the basis of the documentation subsequently prepared, the staff again 
confirmed its adverse recommendation. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated divided views among 
members of the Board present, and therefore action was deferred pending 
an opportunity for all members to participate. 
Southeast Banking Corporation. 
In a memorandum of December 19, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the applications of Southeast Banking 
Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Bank of Florida at 
Fort Lauderdale and Bankers Bank of Florida, also of Fort Lauderdale. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications. It was under-
stood that an order reflecting this decision would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration. 
Wells Fargo & Company. In a memorandum of December 20, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of Wells Fargo <5c Company, 
San Francisco, California, to acquire shares of Grayco Land Escrow, Ltd., 
Pasadena, California. 

1/2/73 
-6-
Discussion brought out that the applicant bank holding company 
had recently sold a $100 million issue of securities, of which $75 
million was being injected into Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as a contribu-
tion to surplus. The bank's ratio of equity capital to invested assets 
would thus be improved, but would still remain somewhat low, and the 
staff expected to have continuing conversations about further improve-
ment. Comments by members of the Board emphasized the need for 
continued efforts to improve capital, especially in the light of the 
scope and risk exposure of foreign interests of Wells Fargo institutions, 
particularly in Argentina. 
The application was approved unanimously, and issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision was authorized. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 12. 
Case preparation. Pursuant to a recommendation by the Office 
of the Program Director for Banking Structure in a memorandum of Decem-
ber 29, 1972, the Board unanimously approved a new format and procedure 
for Reserve Bank case memoranda regarding bank holding company and 
merger applications. A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve 
Banks is attached as Item No. 13. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
atten-
dance . 
Discount rate. On December 28, 1972, the Board of Directors 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had acted in executive session 

1/2/73 
-7-
to establish, subject to review and determination by the Board of 
Governors, a rate of 4-3/4 per cent (an increase from 4-1/2 per cent) 
on advances to and discounts for member banks under sections 13 and 
13a of the Federal Reserve Act, along with appropriately corresponding 
subsidiary rates on advances under other sections of the Act. 
The Bank's directors indicated that they fully understood the 
reasons for the Board's disapproval of their similar action two weeks 
earlier, but felt strongly their responsibility to recommend the change 
again in the current environment. Particular circumstances cited in 
support of the action were increasing short-term market rates, rising 
bank loan demand, and further evidences of economic strength threatening 
to create new inflationary pressures. They recommended that a forthright 
statement be made that the increase should be interpreted only as follow-
ing market rates rather than suggesting a change in monetary policy 
posture. 
Discussion indicated a general disposition not to approve the 
proposed discount rate increase, references being made to the earlier 
understanding that mid-January might be an appropriate time for such 
a change. The principal element weighing against present approval was 
the sensitive financing operation in which the Treasury Department was 
currently engaged. 
Comments on the choice between disapproving the increase and 
refraining from acting upon it turned upon the possibility of a leak 

8 
1/2/73 
-8-
of information attendant upon the latter course. Governor Robertson 
expressed a preference for withholding action, and Governor Brimmer 
indicated some leaning in that direction. However, Governor Daane 
expressed the view that the risk was unnecessarily great, and noted 
that another proposal for a discount rate increase might easily be 
forthcoming. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board voted unanimously 
to disapprove the proposed increase in the discount rate. It was 
agreed that a le tter indicating the reason for the disapproval would 
be drafted and sent to the Chicago Reserve Bank after review by the 
individual members of the Board. It was also agreed that the substance 
of the letter, without identification of the Reserve Bank involved, 
would be communicated to all of the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents. 
Copies of the letter and memorandum subsequently transmitted are attached 
as Items 14 and 15. 
Other discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Kansas City, 
and Sa n Francisco on December 21, 1972, by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston on December 22, 1972, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleve-
land, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas on Decem-
ber 28, 1972, of the rates on advances and discounts in their existing 
schedules 
w a s
 approved unanimously, with the understanding that appro-
priate advice would be sent to those Banks. 

3 
1/2/73 
Grandfather privileges. Pursuant to the Board's actions on 
November 28, 1972, determinations were issued on December 29, 1972, 
regarding the status under the grandfather provisions of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of (1) The Sealy & Smith Foundation for the John Sealy 
Hospital, Galveston, Texas, and (2) Estate of James Millikin, Deceased, 
Decatur, Illinois. Copies of the determinations are attached as 
Items 16 and 17. Pursuant to action on November 30, 1972, a determi-
nation was issued on December 29, 1972, regarding the status of First 
National Bank Voting Trust, Hollywood, Florida. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 18. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F" T H E 
Item No. 1 
1/2/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2C551 
AOORESS OFFICIAL CORRESPQN 
TO THE BOARD 
January 2, 1973 
I 
Board of Directors 
First Citizens Bank 
Billings, Montana 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to seccion 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $600,000 
in subordinated, convertible capital notes by First Citizens Bank, 
Billings, Montana, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis. This approval is given on the condition that 
the capital notes cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity 
without the approval of che Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is 
granted with the understanding that the sale of these capital notes 
will be consummated within six-months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly your 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

11 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
<oVgoV^. 
of the 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1/2/73 
3 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 2, 1973 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of the Commonwealth, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48231 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves, under the provisions of Section 24A of the Federal 
Reserve Act, an additional investment in bank premises by Bank 
of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, of an amount not to 
exceed $2.00,000 in connection with the expansion of the Fort-
Military branch, 6101 West Fort Street, Detroit, Michigan. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of The 
Capital National Bank, Cleveland, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity 
for interested persons to submit comments and views, has 
been given in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time 
for filing comments and views has expired, and the Board has 
considered the application and all comments received in light 
of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in 
Ohio, is the 36th largest of 37 banking organizations in the 
Cleveland banking market (approximated by Cuyahoga, Geauga, Lake, 
and portions of Summit, Portage, Lorain, and Medina Counties) 
with one branch office of one of its subsidiary banks controlling 
!ess than 0.05 per cent of deposits of commercial banks in that 
market. 
( A H banking data are as of December 31, 1971, except 
market deposit data which are as of June 30, 1970.) 
Item Noa 
1/2/73 

13 
-6-
Bank ($101,4 million of deposits) is the tenth largest, 
based on market deposits, of 37 banking organizations in the 
Cleveland banking market and controls 1.2 per cent of total 
deposits of commercial banks in that area. The nearest office 
of Applicants banking subsidiaries to Bank's offices is located 
approximately 10 miles from a branch of Bank, However, due to 
the number of branches of the larger Cleveland banks in the 
intervening area and since neither bank derives a significant 
amount of business from the service area of the other, it 
appears that no meaningful competition exists between any 
of Applicant's subsidiary bonks and Bank; and in view of the 
distances involved and the Ohio law restricting branch bank-
ing within county lines, significant competition between Bank 
and any of Applicant's subsidiary banks is unlikely to develop. 
Although Applicant is considered one of the most likely 
potential entrants into the Cleveland banking market, Bank's 
market share is considered insubstantial and Bank's deposits 
have not demonstrated consistent growth recently, its growth 
rate, in any case, being less than that of smaller banks in 
the market. The proposed transaction therefore appears to 
represent a foothold acquisition by Applicant. Moreover, 
acquisition of Bank by Applicant should have a substantial 

i t 
-3-
beneficial effect on competition among commercial banks in 
the Cleveland market in which the four largest banking 
organizations account for approximately 76 per cent of the 
deposits. The proposed acquisition should enable Bank to 
strengthen its role as a competitor in the market particularly 
for consumer business by permitting it to draw needed financial, 
technical, and management resource strength from Applicant, 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
will not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant 
area and may, in fact, serve to stimulate competition among 
commercial banks in the Cleveland banking market. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of 
Applicant and its subsidiaries appear satisfactory and future 
prospects appear favorable. The managerial resources of Bank 
appear good, as do its financial condition and future prospects 
particularly in view of Applicant's stated intention to inject 
$2 million in the equity capital account of Bank upon consum-
mation of the proposed transaction. 
The major banking needs of the residents of the 
Cleveland area appear to be adequately served at the present 
time by existing institutions. However, Applicant's entry 
into the Cleveland area through acquisition of Bank should 

15 
-4-
benefit individual consumers by enabling Bank to become a 
significant alternative source of such consumer banking 
services as mortgage and installment loans. Considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the residents of 
the Cleveland area are consistent with and lend some weight 
toward approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposed transaction is in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the effective date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bari* of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,2/ effective January 2, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Shcehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Bucher. 

16 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m 
N O o 
4 
1/2/73 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
of the successor by merger to The Peoples Savings Bank Company, Delta, 
Ohio ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no signifi-
cance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares 
of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) o f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
none has been timely received. The Board has considered the application in 
light of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization and the 
largest multi-bank holding company in Ohio, controls 32 banks'^ with deposits 
totaling approximately $1.9 billion, representing 7.8 per cent of the 
j-r—-—————— 
S e c u r ? t v
C
B a n k
h
l
 a
,
1S
°, 
^plications to acquire The Western 
cent of total' ® " 
> Ohio (deposits of $44.5 million, or 0.19 per 
Ohio (deposits n f ^ m T 
J i I ^ ^
 
C a p l t a l 
t I a t l o n a l 
B a n k
> Cleveland, 
(.deposits of $101.4 million, or 0.42 per cent of total State deposits). 

17 
commercial banking deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of 
June 30, 1972, and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board through September 25, 1972.) 
Bank ($9.7 million in deposits), the fourth largest of eight 
banks in Fulton County (which approximates the relevant banking market), 
controls 11.4 per cent of the county deposits. The largest bank in the 
county, The Farmers & Merchants State Bank, Archbold, Ohio, controls 
approximately 32 per cent of all deposits in the county. 
Therefore, 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank would not result in Applicant's gaining 
a dominant share of Fulton County banking resources. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank is located 20 miles away. 
There is no meaningful competition between any of Applicant's subsidiary 
hanks and Bank, nor does it appear likely that such competition will develop 
in the future in the light of the facts presented, notably the distances 
separating Bank from Applicant's subsidiaries, the number of intervening 
banks and Ohio's restrictive branching law. Consummation of the proposal 
would not appear to have an adverse effect on any competing bank. Accord-
ingly, the Board concludes that competitive considerations are consistent 
with approval. 
The financial and mangerial resources and future prospects of 
Bank, and of Applicant and its present subsidiaries, are regarded as satis-
factory and, accordingly, considerations relating to the banking factors 
are consistent with approval. Applicant proposes to assist Bank in arranging 
ioan participation which should enable Bank to undertake loans far in 
excess of its current lending limit, and to make the extensive expertise 

18 
-4-
of its staff available to Bank. Considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served are consistent with approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 2, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith . 
[SEAL] 
Secretary of the Board 
2/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
ane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

19 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
item No. 5 
1/2/73 
THE DELTA BANK 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
The Delta Bank, Delta, Ohio, a proposed State member bank of 
the Federal Reserve System, has applied for the Board's approval pursuant 
to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) of the merger of that bank 
with The Peoples Savings Bank Company, Delta, Ohio, under the name of 
The Peoples Savings Bank Company. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in form 
approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has requested re-
ports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Board has 
considered the application in light of the factors set forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating to the 
application of BancOhio Corporation to acquire the successor by merger to 
The Peoples Savings Bank Company, provided that said merger shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended' for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Rank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 2, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
[SEAL] 
Secretary of the Board 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
aane. Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

Zi 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 6 
P p f W S S - . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1/2/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
• ^X^.UI I I
* 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPJNDENC 
*. 
' 
TO THE BOARD 
••^LRf.^:-' 
January 2, 1973 
° p rl 
te; 
-i.^"-' rr^r'r'r . .••'' ' 
Board of Directors, 
The Delta Bank, 
Delta, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors cf the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of The Delta Bank, Delta, Ohio, for 
stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors> and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit: liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that The Delta Bank will not conduct a banking business with the 
public prior to its merger with The Peoples (Savings Bank Company, 
Delta, Ohio, 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
tiie Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution should be transmitted to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board. 
Enclosure. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
 
I t e m 
N o
» ~> 
1/2/73 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Granting Conditional Approval of 
Acquisition of Banks 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 USC 1042(a)(3)), to acquire the successors by acquisition of assets 
and assumption of liabilities to (1) Highland Village State Bank 
("Highland Village
1 1
), Houston, and (2) First State Bank of Clear Lake 
City ("Clear Lake"), Clear Lake City, Texas. The successor banks to 
Highland Village and Clear Lake have no significance except as a means 
to facilitate the acquisition of voting shares of Highland Village and 
Clear Lake, Accordingly, the proposed acquisitions are treated herein 
as proposed acquisitions of the shares of Highland Village and 
Clear Lake. 
Notice of the applications affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired and the Board has considered the applications and all 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
Act (12 USC 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 10 banks with total deposits of approxi-
mately $1.6 billion, representing about 5.2 per cent of deposits of 
commercial banks in Texas and is the third largest banking organization 

in the State.1/ 
Applicant also has interests in 15 other banks, 
ranging from .02 to 14.3 per cent of voting shares. 
Acquisition 
of Highland Village (deposits of about $29 million) or Clear Lake 
(deposits of about $9 million), or both, would not result in a 
significant increase in the concentration of banking resources in 
Texas. 
The Department of Justice filed comments with regard to 
the proposed acquisition of Highland Village and concluded that 
Applicant's acquisition of that bank would have a significantly 
adverse effect on competition in the Houston market. The Department 
takes the position that the Houston market is concentrated and that 
acquisition by Applicant, which is the largest banking organization 
in the market (on the basis of deposits), of Highland Village, which 
ranks as the fortieth largest bank in the Houston market, would be 
anticompetitive. The Department further states that the present 
affiliation between Applicant and Highland Village is tenuous and 
there is a reasonable probability that the affiliation would be 
dissipated in the relatively near future. The Board has received 
no comment from the Department of Justice with respect to the 
application relative to Clear Lake. 
IT All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect bank 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
through September 15, 1972. 

25 
-4-
Applicant asserts that Highland Village is closely tied to 
Applicant and that essentially the proposed acquisition is merely a 
corporate reorganization. Applicant further states that its lead 
bank, the largest in the Houston market, is a wholesale institution and 
does not compete with Highland Village which is a rather small retail 
bank located in one of the Houston suburbs. In addition Applicant 
contends that the Houston market is not a concentrated one, that con-
centration of resources there has decreased over the past 10 years, 
and is likely to continue in that direction. 
Applicant presently controls approximately 19 per cent of 
deposits in the Houston market and ranks as the largest banking 
organization there.2J 
Clear Lake is a small bank and is located 
almost 72 miles from the City of Houston. Highland Village, although 
substantially larger than Clear Lake, is not a large bank by the 
standards of the Houston market, and its location, almost six miles 
from the downtown Houston area, is not particularly attractive for 
purposes of entry. In fact, neither Highland Village nor Clear 
Lake is an attractive point of entry into the Houston market for 
bank holding companies located outside of that market. 
On the basis of the aforestated facts, the Board regards 
competitive considerations as consistent with approval of the 
2J The Houston banking market is approximated by the Houston Standard 
Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA"), which includes Clear Lake City. 

-4-
applieations. Hot/ever, Applicant's present share ownership and 
influence with respect to South Main and Heights Bank,!/ both located 
in Houston, Texas, present some adverse competitive considerations with 
respect to the applications herein. In the Board's judgment, common 
control over (1) Highland Village and Clear Lake, and (2) South Main 
and Heights banks, four banks located in the Houston market, would be 
anticompetitive. Although Applicant's ownership of voting shares in 
South Main is only C.9 per cent and, in Heights Bank only 0.5 per cent, 
it is clear, from the record, that Applicant has more than a little 
influence over those banks; the existence of common stockholders and 
interlocking directors (between (a) Applicant's system and (b) South 
Main and Heights banks) add to Applicant's influence with respect to 
those banks. The Board has denied approval for the acquisition of 
additional shares in South Main and Heights State banks by Applicant 
(Order dated January 4, 1973) bccause the Board concluded that an 
extension of Applicant's influence over those banks would be anti-
competitive and not in the public interest. Consistent with those 
conclusions, the Board is of the view that Applicant's retention of its 
present influence over the South Main and Heights banks presents competi-
tive considerations adverse to approval of Applicant's acquisition of 
the two Houston market banks subject of the applications herein. 
Accordingly, the Board proposes to approve the applications herein on 
3? The record supporting the Board's Order (of Janurry 4,1973)<> 
denying approval with respect to applications for acquisition of shares 
of these two banks is incorporated herein by reference. 

26 
-4-
condition that Applicant divest itself of direct or indirect control, 
or control through one or more other persons, of any and all voting 
shares, in excess of 5 per cent of the voting shares, of (1) South Main 
Bank and (2) of Heights State Bank, such divestiture to be effected 
within six months after the effective date of this Order unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiaries, and of Clear Lake and of Highland Village 
are regarded as generally satisfactory, particularly in viev; of the 
commitment of Applicant to provide additional capital for its lead 
hank. These considerations are consistent with approval of the applica-
tions. The convenience and needs of the community to be served are 
also consistent with approval of the applications. The Board finds 
fc
hat the two proposed acquisitions are in the public interest, provided 
the Applicant effects the aforementioned divestitures, and should be 
approved on condition that such divestitures are effected within a six 
month period. 
On the basis of the record, and for the reasons summarized 
above, the applications are approved, on condition that Applicant divest 
itself within six months from the effective date of this Order, of 
direct or indirect control, or control through one or more persons, of 
any and all voting shares in excess of 5 per cent of the (a) South 
Main Bank and (b) Heights State Bank. The acquisitions shall not be 

consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order nor (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated 
authority. The time allowed herein for divestiture may be extended for 
good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ effective January 4, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
4/ Voting for approval: Chairman Burns and Governor Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Voting for conditioning 
°f approval: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Brimmer, 
and Bucher. Voting against this action: Governors Daane and Sheehan. 

28 
STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS DAANE AMD SHEEHAN, 
CONCURRING IN PART, AND DISSENTING IN PART 
We concur in the majority's approval of the applications by 
Applicant to acquire Highland Village and Clear Lake. However, we do 
n
°t agree with the provision in that Order whereby Applicant is required 
to divest certain interests in South Main and Heights banks as a condition 
t 0
 approval of the acquisition of Highland Village and Clear Lake. 
Consistent with our dissent from the Board's denial of approval for 
the acquisition of additional voting shares of South Main and Heights 
banks, we find in the record no obstacle, on competitive or other 
grounds, to Applicant's acquisition of all four banks. Applicant is 
closely affiliated with all four banks, an affiliation not likely to 
be terminated in the reasonably foreseeable future; all four banks are 
r e
tail oriented banks that are not in competition in the Houston market 
with Applicant's lead bank, which is a wholesale oriented bank. In 
a
^y event, since there are close to 150 banks in the Houston market, 
consummation of the proposed acquisitions would not, in our judgment, 
raise any barrier to entry nor lessen competition more than negligibly. 
In our judgment, the conditions imposed in the Order of approval will 
have no substantial beneficial effects for the public nor will it cure 
preclude any adverse competitive situation. 
January 4 , 1973 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m No. 8 
1/2/73 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Denying Approval for Acquisition of Banks 
First City Baneorporation of Te*:as, Inc., Houston, Texas, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a
s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 USC 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire the successors by acquisition of assets and 
assumption of liabilities to (1) South Main Bank ("South Main") and (2) 
Heights State Bank ('Heights Bank"), both located in Houston, Texas. 
The successor banks to South Main and Heights Bank have no significance 
except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of voting shares of 
South Main and Heights Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisitions 
are treated herein as proposed acquisitions of the shares of South Main 
and of Heights Bank. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a
^d the Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
i n
 light of the factors set forth in g 3(c) of the Act (12 USC 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 10 banks with total deposits of approximately 
$1.6 billion, representing about 5.2 per cent of deposits of commercial 
banks in Texas and is the third largest banking organization in the State.1/ 
y 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and represent bank holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
September 15, 1972. Applicant's share of Texas and Houston area deposits 
d°es not include the deposits of Highland Village State Bank, Houston, 
G x a
s , and First State Bank oi' Clear Lake City, Clear Lake City, Texas, 
the acquisitions of x;hich by Applicant have been conditionally approved 
by the Board as of this date. 

'30 
-2-
Applicant also has interests in 15 other banks ranging from .02 to 
14.3 per cent of voting shares. Acquisition of South Main (deposits 
of about $72 million) and acquisition of Heights Bank (deposits of 
about $60 million) would result in no significant increase in the 
concentration of banking resources in Texas. 
The Department of Justice filed comments on each of the 
proposed transactions and concluded that the acquisition by Applicant 
of either South Main or Heights Bank (or both) would have significantly 
adverse effects on competition in the Houston market. The Department 
takes the position that the Houston market is concentrated and that 
an acquisition by Applicant, which is the largest banking organization 
in the market on the basis of deposits, of either (or both) of the 
two additional banks, which rank respectively fourteenth and 
seventeenth in the Houston market, would be anticompetitive. The 
Department further states that the affiliation between Applicant and 
each of the two banks sought to be acquired is tenuous and that there 
is a reasonable probability that it would be dissipated in the 
relatively near future. 
In reply to Justice's comments, Applicant asserts that the 
Houston market is not a concentrated one, particularly when compared 
to banking markets of comparable size. Applicant also urges that the 
level of concentration in Houston has decreased over the past 10 years 
and there is every indication of such a trend continuing into the 
future. Applicant further asserts that South Main and Heights Bank 

31 
-4-
are strongly tied to Applicant and that the proposed acquisitions are 
a corporate reorganization rather than acquisitions of independent 
units. Applicant also states that its lead bank is a wholesale 
institution and does not compete x^ith either South Main or Heights 
Bank which are oriented towards a different type of customer and 
business than is the lead bank. 
Applicant presently controls about 19 per cent of the 
deposits in the Houston market and ranks as the largest banking 
organization there.ZJ 
Both South Main and Heights Bank are in or 
immediately adjacent to the downtown Houston area; South Main is 
only one mile south of Applicant's lead bank and Heights Bank is 
approximately 2.5 miles north and x/est of the lead bank of Applicant. 
On the basis of location and size, each of the two proposed acquisi-
tions is an attractive entry vehicle for a holding company wishing 
to enter the Houston market. 
The Board recognizes that the Houston banking market is 
an attractive one for entry, and deems it important that banks of 
the size and location of South Main and Heights Bank be available 
as entry points by outside banking organizations that would be able 
to provide meaningful competition to large banking organizations, 
such as Applicant. The Board also concludes that the addition of 
South Main's or Heights Bank's market shares to Applicant's would 
2/ The Houston banking market is approximated by the Houston Standard 
Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA"). 

32 
-4-
strengthen the market position of Applicant in Houston without 
providing any offsetting public benefits. 
Applicant has strongly urged that the acquisitions of 
South Main and Heights Bank are not acquisitions of independent banks, 
hut constitute rather the restructuring of existing corporate rela-
tionships. Applicant acquired a stock interest in Heights Bank about 
12 years after it was organized and owns approximately .5 per cent 
°f the voting shares of Heights Bank. Applicant asserts that itself, 
1
ts lead bank, and Heights Bank have many officers and directors in 
common. However, this common sharing of officers and directors 
appears to rest on shares held by a large number of individuals 
(rather than corporate entities) who have interests in both Applicant 
and Heights Bank. It appears that directors and officers of Applicant 
approximately 15.3 per cent of Heights Bank stock, and 146 share-
holders who own 50 per cent of Applicant's stock own approximately 
55 per cent of Heights Bank stock. Such individual holdings lack 
the permance of a corporate holding and on the facts herein, a termina-
tion or diffusion would tend to lead to the end of the sharing of 
common officers and directors. This is particularly likely inasmuch 
as the number of individuals in the smallest "control group" postulated 
by 
Applicant apparently exceeds 15. 
The same analysis can be made with regard to South Main. 
Applicant owns a larger share of the voting stock of South Main than 

'33 
-2-
of Heights Bank, but the total still is only S.9 per cent. Applicant 
did not acquire a stock interest in South Main until some eight years 
after it was initially chartered. Again the fact that there are 
common officers and directors existing among Applicant, its lead bank, 
and South Main is not a compelling consideration in view of the fact 
that this control rests on shares owned by a large number of individuals 
associated with Applicant. It appears that 137 shareholders who own 
over 50 per cent of Applicant's stock own 44 per cent of South Main's 
stock. Many of these individuals have greatly disparate interests 
in Applicant and its lead bank on the one hand, and South Main on the 
other; i.e., a shareholder with a large equity interest in Applicant 
generally seems to have a small equity in South Main. As in Heights 
Bank, the number of individuals in the smallest "control group
1
' 
apparently exceeds 15. It is not an unlikely prospect that common 
ownership will be diminished or terminated in the foreseeable future 
and that South Main may become a viable competitor in the market, 
independent of the influence of Applicant. 
The Board concludes, therefore, that competitive consid-
erations weigh against approval of the acquisition of either South 
Main or Heights Bank by Applicant. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant and its subsidiaries are regarded as generally satisfactory, 
particularly in view of the commitment of Applicant to provide additional 

34 
-6-
capital for its lead bank. The financial and managerial resources and 
prospects of South Main and Heights Bank are also regarded as generally 
satisfactory whether as subsidiaries of Applicant or as independent 
institutions. These considerations are consistent with approval of the 
applications, but lend no weight for approval. The convenience and 
needs of the community involved are also consistent with approval of 
applications, but do not present considerations to outweigh adverse 
competitive effects which would arise from acquisition of South Main 
Heights Bank by Applicant. The Board finds that neither of the 
Proposed acquisitions is in the public interest and each should be 
denied. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are denied for 
the reasons summarized above. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective January 4, 1973. 
v 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Brimmer and Bucher. Voting against this action: Governors 
ftaane and Sheehan. 

35 
DISSENTING STATEMENT BY GOVERNORS DAANE AND SHEEHAN 
He dissent from the majority's denial of the acquisition 
by Applicant of South Main and Heights Bank. 
The record shows that there has been a long existing and 
close relationship between these two banks and Applicant, manifest 
currently in two directors of Applicant serving as directors of South 
Main and one director of Applicant serving on the board of Heights 
B
ank. in addition to this sharing of common directors, there is strong 
evidence that the overall operations of the two banks are coordinated 
with that of Applicant's operations. Such joint operation has existed 
in the case of South Main Bank since 1952, when Applicant first obtained 
a voting interest in that bank, and in the case of Heights Bank, there 
is evidence that there has been a joint operation since the chartering 
Heights Bank in 1943, although it was not until 1955, apparently, 
that Applicant actually acquired an interest in the voting shares of 
Heights Bank. The fact that these two banks have operated in cooperation 
with Applicant for such long periods of time indicates to us that there 
is little probability of disaffiliation of these banks from Applicant 
in the reasonably foreseeable future. 
The majority relies on the fact that Applicant owns only 
•5 per cent of the voting shares of Heights Bank and 8.9 per cent with 
respect to South Main. However, officers of Applicant and members of the 
law firm of Vinson, Elkins, Searls, Connally, & Smith, a firm closelytied t 
Applicant, own substantial additional amounts of voting shares of each 

'36 
-2-
of these banks. As Applicant indicated in its letter in response to 
Justice's comments on these applications, if these individual (but 
related) interests are grouped with Applicant's holdings, the total 
"ould be almost 35 per cent of the voting shares of Heights Bank and 
about 26 per cent of South Main's shares. These are substantial interests, 
and inasmuch as it appears that no other person holds a block of 
significant size in either bank, it is clear that Applicant has considerable 
influence - if not actual control - over the two banks. 
Moreover, South Main and Heights Bank are basically retail 
institutions, as distinguished from Applicant's lead bank, which is a 
large wholesale institution. South Main has approximately 1 per cent 
°f market deposits, while Heights Bank's share is a little smaller, 
apparently, in the range of .9 per cent of market deposits. In our 
judgment, the addition of less than 2 per cent to Applicant's market 
share, bringing it up to about 21 per cent, would not result in such 
anticompetitive effects as to warrant denial of these applications, 
Particularly in the light of the structure of the Houston banking 
m
arl:et, which, as of 1970, contained close to 150 banks. As of 
December 31, 1971, Houston appeared to be the least concentrated of 
the large banking markets in Texas. Uhether measured by concentration 
°f the largest banking organization, the four largest banking organiza-
tions, or the 10 largest, in each case, concentration is substantially 
iower than exists in the Dallas, San Antonio, or Fort Uorth markets. 

Concentration in Houston appears to have decreased from 1960 to 1970 
and there is evidence that this trend may continue. On the facts of 
record, we are unable to conclude that the acquisition of South Main 
°
r
 Heights Bank or both by Applicant would lead to anticompetitive 
effects of a substantial nature. 
lie do not disagree with the view of the majority of the 
Board that Houston is an attractive market for entry. However, in 
our judgment, the subtraction of either South Main or Heights Bank 
(or both) as possible vehicles of entry for some other banking 
o r
ganization will raise no bar to entry nor have any deleterious effect 
in the Houston market. There are many other banks apparently available 
l n
 the Houston area as vehicles for entry and of comparable size and 
location to both South Main and Heights Bank. 
Furthermore, in the light of the Board's stated interest!/ 
In expanding the competitive environment in the southwest and national 
m
arlcets, as well as in Houston and Texas, the proposed acquisitions 
should be approved because they would enhance Applicant's ability to 
compete with other banks providing nationwide credit services, 
Particularly for Texas corporations, and would encourage the developmen 
local institutions capable of servicing the growing domestic and 
international interests of Texas corporations. 
For the several reasons stated above, we disagree with the 
Majority's denial of these two applications. 
i^~~See the Board's Order and Statement approving the formation of 
first International Bancshares Inc., November 30, 1972. 
January 4, 1973 

38 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 9 
1/2/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRCSPONOENC? 
TO THE BOARD 
January 3, 1973 
TO THE OFFICERS IN CHARGE OF EXAMINATIONS, LEGAL AND 
RESEARCH DIVISIONS AT ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
This will supersede a letter dated March 31, 1972, wherein 
it was stated that the certification requirement need not be met by 
bank holding companies in connection with Annual Reports (Form Y-6) 
filed with the Board for years ending in 1972. The certification 
requirement is being imposed for 3.973 for bank holding companies 
that meet either of the following criteria: 
(1) Aggregate bank assets exceed $100 million; or 
(2) Aggregate bank assets exceed $30 million and, 
nonbank gross revenues exceed 10 per cent of 
bank total operating income. 
However, the requirement will continue to be waived for the 
following bsnk holding companies: 
(1) those exempt from Section 4 by reason of Section 
4(c)(i) or Section 4(c)(ii) ; , 
, I 
(2) those that have filed irrevocable declarations of 
their intent to divest their bank by January 1, 1931: 
(3) those that have been granted an exemption under 
Section 4(d); and 
(4) others that , upon written request to the Board, are 
granted a waiver. It is expected that waivers will 
be granted for companies with fiscal years ending 
during the early part of 1973. 

-2-
There has been no change in the position earlier expressed with 
regard to the requirement for consolidated financial statements for 
companies that are not subject to the certification requirement. 
They 
should continue to submit consolidated statements if they are normally 
prepared. However, financial statements for companies that are subject 
to the certification requirement shall include consolidated financial 
statements, when appropriate, in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. 
It is recommended that the following letter be sent by you, 
as soon as possible, to all known bank holding companies in your District. 
SPECIMEN LETTER 
This letter is tc advise you that the certification require-
ment in the Board's Annual Report Form F.R. Y-6, revised January 1972, 
is to be met for any period ending in 1973 and thereafter if your bank 
holding company has: 
(1) aggregate bank assets in excess of $100 
million; or (2) aggregate bank assets in excess of $30 million and 
nonbank gross revenue in excess of 10 per cent of bank total operating 
3 ncorne, 
Bank holding companies that are exempt from Section 4 ox the 
Bank Holding Company Act by reason of Section 4(c)(1), Section 4(c)(i.i), 
or Section 4(d) need not submit certified financial statements unless 
they are normally prepared. 
Similarly, certification will not be required 

for companies that have filed irrevocable declarations to divest their 
banking interests prior to January 1, 1981. Additional waivers may 
be granted for good cause shown, upon written request to the Board of 
Governors. 
/ 
Brenton Gl -ljeav£tt 
Program Director for 
Banking Structure 

Item No. 10 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
1/2/73 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A ~ BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. T] 
PART 220 - CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
jjjj^ty_day_R^str i c t ion 
in. Special Cash Account 
The Board of Governors, pursuant to section 7 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 7Sg) , has amended section 220.4(c)(8) 
o f
 Regulation T, "Credit by Brokers and Dealers", effective Uanua'ryr 2, , 
1.973. 
The amendment clarifies that the computation of the 90 day 
freeze provided Jrcr in section 220.4(c)(8) begins with the trade date 
the sale of a security with respect to which the customer has not 
Previously paid for the cost of the purchase within the allotted 7 
b u
sineas days, rather than with the trade date of such purchase. 
The text of the amendment reads as follows: 
§ 220.4 - SPECIAL ACCOUNTS 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(c) 
Special cash account. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(o) Unless funds sufficient for the purpose are already in 
the account, no security other than on exempted security shall be pur-
chased forv or sold to, cny customer in a special cash account with 
the creditor if any security other than an exempted security has been 
Purchased by such customer in such an account, and then, for any reason 

- 9 -
whatever, without having been previously paid for in full by the cus-
tomer, the security has been sold in the account or delivered out to 
any broker or dealer during the preceding 90 days: 
Provided, That an 
appropriate committee of a national securities exchange or a national 
securities association, on application of the creditor, may authorize 
the creditor to disregard for the purposes of this subparagraph any 
given instance of the type therein described if the committee is satis-
fied that both creditor and customer are acting in good faith and that 
circumstances warrant such authorization. For the purposes of this 
subparagraph, the cancelation of a transaction, otherwise than to correct 
a n
 error, shall be deemed to constitute a sale. The creditor may 
disregard f o r the purposes of this subparagraph a sale without prior 
Payment provided full cash payment is received within the period 
Ascribed b> subparagraph (2) of this paragraph and the customer has 
withdrawn the proceeds of sale en or before the day on which such 
Payment (and also final payment of any check received in that connec-
tion) is received. The creditor may so disregard a delivery of a 
security to another broker or dealer provided such delivery was for 
deposit into a special cash account which the latter broker or dealer 
maintains for the same customer and in which account there are already 
sufficient funds to pay for the security so purchased; and for the pur-
Pose of determining in that connection the status of a customer's account 
at another broker or dealer, a creditor may rely upon a written state-
**tit which he. accepts in good faith from such other broker or dealer. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 2, 19 72. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
A* 
KichaTl A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
is 
SEAL] 

!|jjjii.\sv,i:: -
> "
 
:
 r 
' 
Item No. 11 
1/2/73 
Jf
°f immediate release 
January 3, 19 73 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System took 
t v / 0
 steps today to strengthen its implementation of the Bank Protection 
C t W h l c h 
i s
 designed to discourage crimes against financial insti-
tutions and to help apprehend the perpetrators of such crimes. 
The Board issued for comment, simultaneously with the 
C o
* p t r o U e r of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
*
U d t h R 
F G d e r a l 
K o s i e L o a n
 Sank Board, a proposed amendment to brinr- its 
I' *> 
<totlk P t o t f t
« i o r i
 A c t
 regulation (Regulation P) ap to date. 
C o g e n t 
S n
°
U X d b e
 * © « * v e d by February 2.. 
At the same time the Board initiated 
U C a n
'
p a i
^
n 
t 0 
e T
^ourage State member banks to install security devices 
in hir-u 
°
 c r j L r r , c a r e a 2
 
in offices which have experienced one or more. 
" Series since the regulation went into effect in early 1969. 
Statistics compiled by the Department of Justice indicate 
A c
°
n
tinned high level of bank robberies — as distinguished from 
^HJrrl , v. • 
buries and larcenies 
" nlthough the rate of increase appears to 
-owed, possibly as a result of implementation of the Bank 
A
S e c t i o n Act and i security measures taken by the banking industry. 
D e
P
a v t
™? n t reported that during the year which ended June 30, 19 72, 
vcre 2,600 ban?: robberies, 360 burglaries, and 2X2. larcenies 
ior N
 "°*
ai o f
 3J./2 offenses« 
This compares with 2,365 robberies, 4 71 
^irr-i,;,.!^., 
-'...ft;': anu 3.18 laxeet-ies for a total of 3{.354 offenses 
f
-
ru
- year which ended June 30, 1971. 

Irt instructions to the Federal Reserve Banks, the Beard 
h a s
 ^pressed concern "that the seriousness of the extent of. crimes 
a
g?inpt banks has not abated since enactment of the Bank Protection 
and, in view of the deficiencies noted in security programs of 
bank* which have experienced external crimes in. recent months, 
b 't ^ 
—eves that additional action should be taken to assure that all 
State members arc in compliance with the Bank Protection Act 
V e
8ulatlcu." 
The proposal issued today would bring the security st andards 
in Appendix A to Regulation P up to date in light of developments over 
th •» Post several years. Under the Regulation, if 
a bank decides not 
-nstall, maintain or operate the devices to rceet the minirrj/n Stan-
c
'
s
 defined in Appendix A , It is required to forward to the Reserve 
•B" 1 
5
 
in its district a statement of the reasons for its decision. 
J^a* t 
L
*onal banks and Federally insured State norurember banks are subject 
tl o 
similar regulations issued by the Comptroller of the Currency and th 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, respectively, which require the 
^esetvation in the hank's own records a statement of the reasons for 
i t l £
 decision, 
! 
The Reserve Banks were asked to review their tiles and 
d ( l t
ermine: 
(a) which banks have reported security deficiencies on 
£ 
•Una they have filed since January 1, 1970, and which banks have 
b -
v C r
< cited in examination repot ts as deficient * 

'45 
-2-
(b) which banks were robbed or burglarized during the 
S a m e
 Period and have a statement on file indicating that security 
d e v
ices have not been installed. 
The Reserve Banks were also asked to contact deficient 
^ n k s to determine whether corrections have been made and, if not, 
v
hat plans management has for making corrections. Statements filed 
b
y banks that have been robbed or burglarized are to be reviewed to 
ermine whether the reasons cited for not installing security devices 
a i G
 still valid. 
In cases where it appears that the bank should now 
bave additional security, contact is to be made to emphasize the need 
the installation and to obtain a commitment from the bank to do so. 
In conclusion, the Board stated: 
"The Board is of the opinion that, except in extraordinary 
circumstances, a bank can no longer justify not installing 
security devices after it has been robbed, and that the 
Reserve Bank should insist on affirmative action such as 
the installation of the necessary number of cameras in 
all offices which have experienced one or more robberies." 
| 
A pilot survey of a high crime area recently conducted by 
e
 Federal supervisory authorities indicated that approximately 95 
p e r
 cent of the banking offices surveyed had some form of surveillance 
s
-
;
sfce.u\ and alarms and that about 80 per cent of the suspects appre-
hended on bank robbery charges in 1971 is directly attributable to 
security devices* 

Comment on the proposed revision of Appendix A to 
^
e
2ulation P should be submitted to the Board. The proposed 
r c
vis ion would: 
1. Distinguish between requirements for vaults and safes 
t o
 eliminate confusion. 
2. Hake clear that safe deposit boxes must be contained in 
Q
n approved vault or safe, 
3. Permit use of reinforced concrete at least 12 inches 
t
^ick in vault construction (the 5R specifications of the National 
-durance Rating Board), a specification which provides burglary 
stance equivalent to 1U inches of concrete under the original 
til
^»iiaum standard. 
4. Prohibit the use of steel, in lieu of concrete for 
v
*ult walls or wall liners. 
5. Permit alarm companies to drill slightly larger holes 
safes for inserting cables now required for some modern, improved 
Sterns. 
I 
6. Prescribe protection standards for cash dispensing 
A copy of the proposed revision is attached. 

I': 
I 
; 
1 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
£iz CFR 2167 
/Keg. £/ 
ilMINIHUIl SECURITY DEVICES AND PROCEDURES FOR 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND STATE IELIBER BANKS 
Notice is hereby given that the Board of Governors of 
Federal Reserve System proposes co revise, Appendix A, "Ilinioum 
Standards for Security Devices", of Part 216 entitled "liinimum 
Security Devices and Procedures for Federal Reserve Banks and State 
Member Banks." 
As part of its responsibilities under ;:ne Bank Protection 
Ac:
<: of I960 (32 Stat. 294), the Board of Governors conducts a 
c
< m U n u i n g review of the minimum standards for bank security cevicea. 
Based on its review, the proposed Appendix A revises and clarifies 
the minimum standards with which each Federal Reserve Bank and 
°ach State member bank must comply with respect to the installation, 
maintenance, and operation of security devices to discourage robberies, 
burglaries, and larcenies and to assist in the identification and 
apprehension of persons who commit such acts, 
Amonj.; the proposed revisions are a definition of vaults 
;
-
,s
 distinguished from safes, modified standards of vault construction, 
f
-nd protection standards for cash dispensing machines. The. proposed 
Revision also makes clear that, to meet the minimum security standards, 
Eafe deposit boxes muse be stored in ari approved vault or safe. 
The -proposed revisions would be accomplished by amending 
appendix A to 
t\u follows: 

APPENDIX A 
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SECURITY DEVICES 
•ta order to assure realization of maximum performance capabilities, 
security devices utilized by a bank should be regularly inspected, 
tested, and sarviced by competent persons. Actuating devices for 
surveillance, systems and robbery alarms should be operable with the 
lecst risk of detection by unauthorized persons that can be practicably 
achieved, 
(1) 
Surveillance systems 
(i) General. 
Surveillance 
systems should L-e: 
" 
(A) equipped with one or more photographic, recording, 
Monitoring, or like devices capable of reproducing images of persons 
in the banking office with sufficient clarity to facilitate (through 
Photographs capable of being enlarged to produce a one-inch vertical 
^ad-size of persons whose images have been reproduced) the identifi-
cation and apprehension of robbers or other suspicious persons; 
(B) reasonably silent in operation; and 
(0) so designed and constructed that necessary services, 
r e
paira or inspections can. readily be made. 
Any camera used in such a systeri should be capable 
of taking at least one picture every two seconds and, 
if it uses film, should contain enough unexposed film 
at all times to be capable of operating for not less 
than three minutes, and the film should be at least 16mm. 
(i i ) Ins tall a tion and operation of s urvcillaiice s y s t e m s 
surveillance of other than walk-up or drive-in teller's 
or windows. 
Surveillance devices for other than walk-up 
drive-in teller's stations or..windows should be: 
i 
(A) located so as to reproduce identifiable images of 
persons either leaving the banking office or in a position to 
transact business at each such station or window; and 
(3) capable of actuation by initiating devices located 
Q
t each teller
3
a station or window. 

(iii) i H ^ ^ l ^ ^ ^ - a n d ^ o j ^ c r a t i o n of surveilianc5 systems 
^ ^ ^ j l ^ S H g ^ ^ ^ J ' l d r i v e - i n 
toller's s t a t i o ^ T r 
Surveillance devices for walk-up or drive-in teller's""" 
stations or windows should be located in such a manner as to repro-
v e identifiabl a images of persons in a position to transact business 
a
t each such station or window and areas of such station or window 
are vulnerable to robbery or larceny. Such devices should be 
capable of actuation by one or more initiating devices located within 
in close proximity to such station or window. Such devices may 
e
 omitted in the. case of a walk-up or drive-in teller's station 
window in which the teller is effectively protected by a bullet-
Resistant barrier from persona outside the station or window. 
However, 
J ] :
 the tell er is vulnerable to larceny or robbery by members of the 
*
 
l c 
V ) [ x o
 enter the banking office, the teller should have access 
o n device to actuate a surveillance system that covers the area of 
V l
Unerabi]ity or the exits to the banking office 
„ 1 
Robbery and burglary alarm ^ys_terns. 
(;.) Robbery 
r- — t c m s . 
A robbery alarm system should be provided for each 
'poking office at which the police ordinarily can arrive within five 
^ n u t e s ^fitter r.n alarm is actuated; all other banking offices should 
•c provide..: with appropriate devices for promptly notifying the police 
vaat p robbery has occurred or is in progress. Robberv alarm systems 
cnould be: 
(A) designed to transmit to the police, either directly 
through an intermediary, a signal (net detectable by unauthorized 
Persons) indicating that a crime against the banking office has 
occurred or is in progress; 
(B) capable of actuation by initiating devices located 
each teller's station or window (except walk-up or drive-in teller's 
c
tations or windows in which the teller is effectively protected by 
a bullet-resistant barrier and effectively isolated from persons, 
'^ther than fellow employees, inside a banking office of which such 
station or window may be a part); 
. . 
I 
(C) safeguarded against accidental transmission of an 
(D) equipped with, a visual and audible signal capable, of 
ndicof in.<> improper fmioHouinG of or i-uiiperi ns ''wj th the system; and 

. -4-
(E) equipped with an independent source of power (such 
a s
 6 battery) sufficient lO assure continuously reliable operation 
the system for at least 24 hours in the event of failure of the 
u
sual source of power. 
(ii) Burglary alarm systems. A burglary alarm system 
should be provided fo'r each banking office. Burglary alarm systems 
shou)d be; 
(A) capable of detecting promptly an attack on the outer 
door, walls, floor, or ceiling of each vault, and each safe not 
stored in a vault, in which currency, negotiable securities„ or 
similar valuables are stored when the office is closed, and any 
attempt to move any such safe; 
(B) designed to transmit to the police, either directly 
through an intermediary, a signal indicating that any such attempt 
i a
 i^ progress; and for banking offices at which the police ordinarily 
cannot arrive within five minutes after en alarm is actuated, designed 
t 0
 actuate* a loud sounding bell or other device that is audible inside 
fchc banking oftice and for a distance of Approximately 500 feet outsid 
the b.?.ukino otfj.ee; 
(C) safeguarded against accidental transmission of an alarm 
(D) equipped with a visual and audible signal capable of 
indicating improper functioning of or tampering with the system; and 
(E) equipped with an independent source of power (such as 
a
 battery) sufficient to assure continuously reliable operation of 
the system for at least 30 hours in. the event of failure of the usual 
a
°yrce of power. 
(3 } V/ajJku_and_dr1vc- in te 11 or' s stations or windows. 
Walk-up and drive-in' teller's stations or windows contracted for after 
February 15, 1969, should be constructed in such a manner that tellers 
are effectively protected by bullet-resistant barriers from robbery 
°r larccny by persons outside such stations or windows. 
Such barriers 
should be of glass at least 1-3/16 inches in thickness,!' or of 
^atsrlal of at. least equivalent bullet-resistance. 
Pass-through 
devices should be so designed and constructed as not to afford a 
Person nufcsi.de the station or window a direct line of fire at a 
person inside the station. 
U 
(Footnotes appear at end of Appendix A), 

'51 
~5~ 
(4) Vaults* 
s
a
f
e
* 
and cash d i s p en sTiv^lnachines. Vaults, safes (if not to be stored in 
a W O r i ^ T t o o i u ^ e s , night depositories, and cash dispensing 
machines, in any of which currency, negotiable securities, or simiiai 
valuables are to be stored when banking offices are closed, should 
j 
tteet or exceed the standards expressed in this section. 
(j) Vaults. A vault is defined as a room or compartment 
that is d e s i g n e T T ^ the storage and safekeeping of valuables and 
which has a si;;e and shape which permits entrance and movement 
within by one or more persons. Vaults contracted for after (eiiec^ 
tiye_datc to_bc_ dosij^nated)-'« should have walls, floor,ana cei*ins 
of reinforced concrete "atTleast 12 inches in thickness.- 
The ^ 
vault door should be made of steel at least 3-1/2 inches in ehicuness, 
or other drill and torch resistant material, and be equipped with 
dual combination locks, a tine lock, and a substantial lockable oay-
Cate. Electrical conduits into the vault should not exceed 1-1/2 
inches in diameter and should be offset within the walls, floor, or 
ceiling oc leas'- once so as not to form a direct path of entry. 
A- vau? r ventilator, if provided, should be designed with consideration 
of safety i*o life without significant reduction of the strength or 
tha vault v-j 1 to hvr;;l*ry attack. Alternatively, vaults shoiUv, be 
SO designed r,nd constructed as to afford at least equivalent burglary 
resistance. 
(ii) 
Safe-:, Safes contracted for after February 15, 1969, 
should weigh aifTcasc 750 pounds empty, or be securely anchored to 
the premises where located. The body should consist of steel, at 
least ) inch in thickness, either cast or fabricated, with an ultimate 
tensile strength of 50,000 pounds per square inch and be fastened in 
^ manner equal to a continous 1/4-inch penetration weld having an 
ultimate tensile strength of 50,000 pounds per square inch. The door 
should be made of steel that is at least 1-1/2. inches in thickness, 
and at least equivalent in strength to that specified for the body; 
and the door should be equipped with a combination lock, arid with _ 
a rclocl<in" device that will effectively lock the door if the combination 
Heck if ounclM'd. One hole not exceeding 1/2-inch diameter may be 
provided*in the bodv tc permit insertion of electrical conductors, 
but should be located so as not to permit a direct view of the uoox 
or loci:inn mechanism. Alternatively., safes should be constructed 
of materials that will afford at least equivalent burglary resistance. 
2/ 
(foornotes appear at cud of Appendix A.) 
1/ 

-6-
(iii) Safe deposit: boxes, 
Safe deposit boxes used to safe-
guard customer valuables should be enclosed in a vault or safe 
m e
eting at least the above-specified minimum protection standards. 
(iv) Night depositories,, Night depositories (excluding 
^-nvelope drops not used to receive substantial amounts of currency) 
contracted for after February .15, 1969, should consist of a receptacle 
'
1 0 s t
 having cast or welded steel walls, top and bottom, at least 
Ct
}
G
 
in thickness; a steel door at least 1-1/2 inches in thickness 
with a combination lock; and a c.hute, made of steel that is at least 
0 R e
 ^ c h in thickness, securely belted or welded to the receptacle 
and to a depository entrance of. strength similar to the chute. Alter-
natively, night depositories should be so designed and constructed 
t o
 afford at least equivalent burglary r e s i s t a n c e ' 
The depository 
^trance should be equipped with a lock. Night depositories should 
'f
 ec
l
l,
ipped with a burglar alarm and be designed to protect against 
^ " f i s h i n g " of a deposit from the deposit receptacle, and to protect 
gainst the "trapping" of a deposit for extraction. 
(v) Cash dispens in?, machines. Except as hereinafter 
I-'rovtd^f!, cash dispensing" machines (including those machines which 
^
 £
o Gr.ccpt deposits) contracted for after (effective date, to be 
should weigh at least 750 pounds empty, or be securely 
^chored to the premises where located. These machines should con-
f s m o n g other features, a storage chest having cast or welded steel 
^ l l s , top, and bottom, at least one inch in thickness, with a tensile 
strength of at least SO,000 pounds per square inch. The door should 
D G
 cons trucked oi: rteeX at least equivalent in strength to the storage 
; 
end be equipped with a combination lock and with a rclocking 
^evice the.!; w i n effectively Jock the door if the combination lock 
s
 punched. The housing covering the cash dispensing opening (and, 
^
 i e n
 applicable, deposit receiving opening) in the storage chest, 
«nd the housing covering the mechanism for removing the cash from 
1 0
 storage chest, should be so designed as to provide burglary 
^-Sistance at least equivalent to the storage chest and should also 
designed to protect against the "fishing" of cash from the storage 
h^ct. The cash dispensing control and delivery mechanisms (and, 
:'
U c n
 applicable, cash deposit receipt mechanism) should be protected 
V steel j at least 1/2-inch in thickness, securely attached to the 
(Footnotes appear hi: en J of Appendix A.) 

53 
• 
-i-
storage chest. The cash dispensing machine should be designed so as 
to be protected against actuation by unauthorised persons, should 
be protected bv a"burglar alarm, and should be located in a well-
lighted area. "Alternatively, cash dispensing machines should be so 
designed and .constructed as to afford at least equivalent burglary 
j 
Resistance,— 
' 
A cash dispensing machine which is used inside a bank's premises 
only during bank business hours, and which is empty of currency and 
J 
coin at all other rimes, should at least provide safeguards against^ 
"jimyins," unauthorized opening of the storage chest door, and against 
actuation by unauthorized persons. 
FOOTNOTES 
y 
It should be emphasized that this thickness is merely bullet-
resistant and not bulletproof. 
2/ Vault's contracted for previous to this date should be constructed 
in conformance with all .applicable specifications then in eifect. 
3/ The V'-;fnforced concrete should have: 
two grids of #3 (5/0" 
diameter) devoraed steel bars located in horizontal and vertical 
rows in each direction to form grids not more than four m c n e s _ 
on c-ntorr or two grids of expanded steel bank vault mesh p,acea 
parallel to the face of the wails, weighing at least six pounds 
per square foot to each grid, having a diamond pattern not more 
than 3" r 0
s
'; or two grids of any other fabricated steel placea 
parallel to the race of the walls, weighing at least six pounds 
per square foot to each grid and having an open area not exceeding 
four inches on center. Grids are to be located not less than 
six inches apart and staggered in each direction. 
The^concrete 
should develop an ultimate compression strength oi at icast 3.0J0 
pounds per square inch. 
4/ Equivalent burglary-resistant materials for vaults do not. include 
the use oi steel lining, either inside or outside a vault wall, 
in lieu of the specified ienforcement and thickness oi: concrete, 
5/ Equivalent- burglary-resistant materials for night depositories 
include the use. of 1/4-inch steel pi ate cr.cased in six inches 
or more of concrete or masonry building wall. 
6/ 
Equivalent bur-lary-reoist.anu materials for cash dispensing 
rcachir.es Include the use of 3/0-inch thick S per.cent nickel 
stales* 
steel alloy »n 
one inch thick R t ^ l , if other 
cr i t. ev 1 a a r * a {• i <s i: f c o , 

rr 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553 of 
title 5, United States Code and 1 262.2(a) of the Rules of 
Procedures of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
To aid in the consideration of the proposed revision 
by the Board, interested persons are invited to submit relevant 
data, views, or arguments. Any such comments or material should 
fee submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received 
not later than 30 days from the date of publication of this notice 
in. the Federal Register, 
Bv order of t'.-e Board of Governors, December 11, 19 72. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Uichael A'. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 

ft" 
b o 
/r&M&i: 
EJDARD O F 
G D V E R M D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2C551 
AOCPiIGS OFFICIAL CQRStSFnNOENCt 
TCI THE BOARD 
January 3, 3.973 
The Department of Justice has reported to the Board the results 
recently compiled Fiscal Year 1972 statistics on external crime against 
financial institutions. The Department states that: "In Fiscal Year .1972 
there were 2,500 bank robberies, 360 burglaries, and 212 larcenies for a 
total of 3,172 offenses. This compares with 2,565 robberies, 471 berglar-
iosjp.n-l 318 larcenies for a total of 3.354 offenses in Fiscal Year 1971," 
statistics indicate a continuing rice in bank robberies although the 
of increase appears to have slowed, hopefully, as a result of imple-
mentation of. the Bank Protection Act and measures taken by the banking 
industry. Also, bank burglaries and larcenies have decreased- 
These 
hopeful signs should give impetus to our efforts and intensify our 
determination to take all feasible steps to bring about a reduction in 
hank robberies and a further downturn in burglaries and larcenies. 
Regulation P stipulates that banks muse give consideration to 
certain factors for the purpose of determining the appropriateness of 
security devices. These include: 1) incidence of crime in the area, 
2) the araov.nl of valuables exposed to the public, 3) the distance to the 
nearest law enforcement officers, 4) cost of the devices, 5) other 
security measures already in effect, and 6} the physical characteristics 
the structure of the banking office and its surroundings. If a bank 
chooses, on the basis of these factors, not to install security devices 
at least equivalent to the standards set forth .in Regulation P, it must 
til* with the appropriate Reserve Bank a statement setting forth-the. 
Reasons for ouch decision. It is presumed that the Reserve Banks have 
Reviewed all relevant aspects of each of these statements and that in 
each instance the Reserve Bank either (1) has been satisfied that there 
•are valid reasons for not installing the security devices or (2) has 
obtained assurance that the necessary devices will be installed» 
A Bosrd staff review of the "Report of Crime" (Form P-2} 
submitted by State member banks each time a robbery, burglary or 
larceny is perpetrated or attempted indicates a continuing existence 

- 2 -
F o
 a
 Substantial number of deficiencies in bank security programs. 
2/
r
 
in a number of esses either "bait" money was not given to 
tellT »
 r S
'
 i d e n t i f i c a C l o n
 numbers of "bait" money were not recorded, 
t . "
e r s
 
cash was not kept at a reasonable minimum, alarms were ineffec-
i n » t - 4
a m e r a S 
d I d 
n C t 
r e c o r c ! u s e f u
l pictures or no cameras had been 
C r L ^ n '
 
A 
r e v i e
'
w o f 
c h e
 examiners
1
 report pages, FR UQ-External 
tin 
^estionnaire, forwarded to the Board with the reports of examina-
th-r
 
r e V G a l s 
a u m e r o u i ]
 security deficiencies but in many instances 
"
 
e 
n o
 indication of management's plans for taking action to 
Lre.ct the weakness ess or deficiencies. 
o 
Board is concerned that the seriousness of the extent of 
t
J
o ^ against banks has not abated since enactment of the Bank Protec-
banV
 A < l
u
 R
:
l d
*
 i n V i e w 
o f 
c h e
 deficiencies noted in security programs of 
V-ir-
 
i c h 
h a v e
 experienced external crimes in recent months, the .Board 
me ,v
 
a d
-
i f
'
l i o i : G l
 action should be taken to assure that all State 
a r e 
i 7 i
 compliance with the Bank Protection Act regulations. 
ir
- 
he appreciated if you would review your files and 
^vcrmine which banks in your District: 
(1) have reported security 
tlef:
C
:
e r i C i e s 0 , 1
 Pernio P-2 filed with you since January 1, 1970, (2) have 
f c U'xencies indicated on the examiners
1
 External Crime Questionnaires 
^-•pieced since that date., cr (3) have been robbed or burglarized during 
d *
 6 S m < 2
 period but have a statement on file with you indicating security 
cjt Go
C e n h £ V C 
u o t 
h e e n 
l n s t a l J
-
c d
* 
With respect to any apparent deficien-
W l i i c n h a v c 
n o t 
b e e n
 corrected, the deficient banks should be con-
^
c t
e d to determine if correction has been effected and, if not, manage-
° Plans for correction, including suitable plans for continuing 
^"'aining. Each statement filed by a bank choosing not to install 
i n
C U
J"
i t 5 >
 devices but which has been subsequently robbed or burglarized 
n the period stated should be reconsidered to determine if the state-
h\
l t
\
1 1 0 , 7 c o n t a i n &
 ^ v a U d reasons for not installing security devices. 
^ 
those cases where it appears that the bank should now have additional 
t
 - C u r
ity devices, such as cameras, contact should be made with the bank 
rn? 
the need for the installation and ever;; effort should be 
" e to obtain a commitment from the bank to do so. 
A pilot survey of a high crime area recently conducted by the 
1 
Federal supervisors of financial ins it at ions indicated 
^Proximately 95 per cent of the banking offices surveyed had some form 
surveillance system and alarms and that about SO per cent of the 
^•Prehensions of Lank robcers in 197.1 is directly attributable to bank 
ecutity equipment> such as alarms, cameras, and other protective devices. 
The Board is of the opinion that, except in extraordinary cir-
^^istciaces, a frank car? no longer justify not installing security devices 
'
i - t e r
 it has been robbed, and chat the Reserve bank should insist on 

57 
- 4 -
affirmative action such as the installation of the necessary number of 
cameras in all offices which have experienced one or more robberies. 
As 
know, the Beard has authority under the Bank Protection Act to insist 
o n
 the installation of security devices and better protective measures, 
ail{
2, where appropriate, can assess civil penalties under the Bank Protec-
tion Act or take the necessary action under the Financial Institutions 
Supervisory Act to enforce compliance. 
It would be appreciated if you would forward to the Board a 
report of ycur findings indicating the names and addresses of (1) those 
hanks without cameras in offices which have been robbed in the period 
stated and their plans for installing cameras in these offices, and 
tt) those banks which continue to have other security deficiencies, 
including a brief description of the nature of the other deficiencies 
the bank's plans for correcting such deficiencies. In the event 
of these banks with deficiencies have not agreed to correct them, 
Please forward full information to the Board, together with your 
recommendation for further supervisory action. In the. future, the 
same procedure should be followed for deficient banks not agreeing to 
take corrective action. 
At this time, the 3auk Protection Act and Regulation ? have 
keen in effect for several yaexs but the rate of external crSties against 
banks continues at a high level. The Board expects to reappraise the 
ef
fect?A*eness of the present regulations and to consider the possibili-
ties of makinp legislative recommendations to Congress if such action 
is believed to be necessary. The Board would appreciate the benefit 
your experience in enforcing compliance and has asked chat you 
forward to it any views or recommendations for strengthening both the 
Act and regulations. 
There are enclosed copies of the Board's release of today*c 
date regarding a proposed amendment to the Bank Protection Act 
(Regulation P ) . 
Very truly yours, 
Enclosure 
t . / 
f U . < 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
I i .< 
* 
TO TUE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BA1IKS 

58 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 12 
1/2/73 
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Grayco Land Escrow, Ltd. 
Wells Fargo & Company, San Francisco, California, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under 
section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Regulation Y to acquire all of the voting shares of Grayco 
Land Escrow, Ltd., Pasadena, California ("Grayco"), a company 
that engages in the activities of acting as a trustee under 
subdivision trust agreements and providing to real estate 
developers and lot purchasers a computerized accounting and 
collection system. Such activities have been determined by 
the Board to be closely related to the business of banking 
(12 CFR 225.4(a)(4) and (8)(ii)) . 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity 
for interested persons to submit comments and views on the 
Public interest factors, has been duly published (37 Federal 
Register 18121). The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, a one-bank holding company, controls 
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, San Francisco, 
California ("Bank"), the third largest bank in California 
with domestic deposits of $5.4 billion as of December 31, 
1971, representing 8.8 per cent of total commercial bank 

-2-
\ f 
deposits in the State, In Los Angeles County, where a substantial 
number of Grayco's customers are located, Bank holds but 0,9 per 
cent of the county-wide commercial bank deposits. 
Applicant 
also has nonbanking subsidiaries engaged principally in manage-
ment of a real estate investment trust and in providing equipment 
lease financing and data processing services. 
Grayco is a small, family-owned business,2/engaged in 
Providing an accounting, collection, and fiduciary service for 
developers and purchasers of lots in real estate subdivisions 
(all in the State of California), Its data processing activities 
consist of furnishing reports to developers and lot purchasers 
containing detailed information on accounts receivable, com-
missions payable, and other financial data concerning real 
estate sales. In addition, Grayco is licensed under California 
law as an escrow company and serves as trustee in the sale of 
subdivided land under regulations of the California Real Estate 
Commissioner. In its fiduciary capacity, Grayco holds legal 
title to and executes sales contracts covering unimproved 
subdivision lots. Additionally, Grayco receives and disburses 
installment payments from contract vendees, ultimately conveying 
title upon fulfillment of all contract terms. Grayco does not 
search or insure real estate titles nor does it engage in property 
1/ As of December 31, 1971, Grayco had total assets of $1,4 million 
and a net worth of $172,000, 

management, development or consulting. Its fiduciary activities 
a
re those performed or carried on by a trust company under 
California law. 
The relevant product market in which Applicant and 
Grayco may compete with each other may be broadly defined as 
land escrow services, comprising the total package of fiduciary, 
collection, and data processing services provided both developers 
and purchasers of real property. As such services are necessarily 
restricted by State law, the Board concludes that the relevant 
geographic market in this case is the entire State of California, 
Neither Applicant nor any of its subsidiaries are currently 
engaged in providing land escrow services in California, although 
Bank does act as trustee, under a subdivision trust agreement, 
for one customer in the State of Illinois, Bank has both the 
financial resources and managerial capability to offer similar 
services in California. 
Grayco is one of approximately 15 firms that offer 
land escrow services in California. In addition, there are a 
large number of firms, including data processors and title com-
panies, that offer one of the services associated with the package 
land escrow services. Moreover, there are an even greater 
number of other potential entrants with similar capabilities 
since the barriers to providing land escrow services are 
relatively low. The Board therefore concludes that consummation 
°f the proposal herein would foreclose no existing competition 
and that the adverse effect upon potential competition would not 
be significant. 

-4-
61 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would result in any 
undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, unsound 
banking practices or other adverse effects on the public 
interest. It is anticipated that Grayco's affiliation with 
Applicant will provide it with the financial and managerial 
resources that will enable it to compete more effectively 
with other land escrow firms and to improve as well as broaden 
the services presently offered. 
i 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations 
reflected in the record, the Board has determined that the 
balance of the public interest factors the Board is required 
to consider under section 4(c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, 
the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such 
modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the 
Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, 
or to prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— 
effective January 2, 1S73. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brirnmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Bucher, 

'<62 
I t e m N o . 13 
1 / 2 / 7 3 
arnciAL cd3*espdngl<mc:e 
to'the bdaro 
ry 4, 1973 
The Board has given considerable thought to additional ways 
to eliminate unnecessary duplication of staff work, at both, the Board 
and the Reserve Banks, in processing bank merger and holding company 
cases. Reflecting that concern, the Board proposes that Reserve Banks 
adopt a new format and procedure to be used in preparation of case 
memoranda. 
It is important to note that under this arrangement all 
Departments of Reserve Banks (or sections of a single Department if 
there is only one Department with responsibilities for processing 
applications) will remain responsible for analyses of all factors and 
a recommendation based on a review of all such factors. But this pro-
posed format and procedure will relieve Reserve Banks of the necessity 
of presenting duplicate writ-ten presentations of the issues, 
The recommended new format contains six principal sections. 
Where there is general agreement about any section, the new format 
will permit the submission of a written presentation for such section 
of the memorandum by only one Department of the Reserve Bank; the 
other Department need not submit a written presentation for that sec-
tion. For any section where there is significant disagreement, both 
Departments should submit written presentations. 
The new proposed format, together with the name of the 
Department that will ordinarily write individual sections of a 
memorandum when chere is no significant disagreement, is as follows: 
Summary of Issues. Either Examinations or 
Research may write this section. The Reserve 
Bank may wish to designate one of the Depart-
ments to write this section generally, but 
the other Department 
may be designated to 
write the section for particular cases* 
II. Description of trie Proposal, 
Examinations. 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF 
THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 2C551 
ADDUCES 
Janua 

-2-
*ti3 
1 1 1
• 
Financial and Managerial Considerations. 
Examinations. 
IV. 
Competitive Effects. 
Research. 
Convenience and Needs (for merger and 3(a) 
cases). Research. 
Other Public Interest Considerations (for 
4(c)(3) cases). Research. 
V I
* 
Other Considerations. The Reserve Bank may 
designate one or more Departments to write 
in this section. The section may include, 
for example, a discussion of legal issues or 
the permissibility of an activity. In many 
cases nothing need be written. 
As noted, for any section where there is a meaningful disagree-
n i G n
t, both Departments should write. (The Legal Department may also 
Present an analysis whenever it is not in agreement.) 
For example, if 
there is disagreement on the competitive analysis, Research may write 
P
a
rt (a) of Section IV setting forth its analysis, and Examinations may 
W r
ite part (b) setting forth its own analysis. Additionally, in the 
Issues, Section I, this disagreement would have been cited, 
and the reader would have been alerted to expect it. 
In addition to the six Sections indicated above, at the begin-
ning of the memorandum there should be, separately listed, recommendations 
for approval or denial by each Department and the Reserve Bank itself. 
I'his represents no change. As usual, tables, diagrams and other such 
Materia], will ordinarily be placed at the end of the memorandum. 
While adoption of the new format and procedure will require 
adjustments by both the Reserve Banks and the Board, significant benefits 
a r
e expected.. Adoption should permit more efficient utilization of staff 
at the Reserve Banks and may thus reduce the number of additional examiners 
and economists needed to process any future growth in the case load, 
dually important is the fact that Board Members will receive more concise, 
nevertheless complete, memoranda that will reduce considerably the 
time required for review. 
If your staff has any questions concerning either the new format 
or procedure, please have them call or write to Mr. Wiles, to appropriate 
Members of the Legal, Research, or Supervision and Regulation Divisions 
at the Board, or to me. 
f 
Very truly yours, 
brenton C. 
Program Director 
for Banking Structure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

BOARD OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H i N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 14 
1/2/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 2, 1973 
Mr. Robert P. Kayo, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Dear Mr. Mayo: 
The Board of Governors took action today to 
disapprove the pending increase in your Bank's discount 
rate from 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 per cent which your board of 
directors voted in executive session to establish on 
December 23. In reaching its decision, the Board of 
Governors took into account the views of your directors 
which you conveyed by letter dated December 28, but the 
Board concluded that the current Treasury bend financ-
ing made it undesirable to raise the discount rate at this 
time. The Board appreciates having had the benefit of 
the views of your directors. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

O C A R D OF fJGVERN O R 3 
or THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
feice 
C o r r e s p o i i d e n c e 
- ^ - ^ g £ a l _ R e s e r v e B a n k Pre.sidents 
^
r
0D3 
J^jorinand B e r n a r d 
;\/ • tf . 
To. 
I t e m N o ft i-5- 
» , 
1/2/73 
Dftte 
J a n u a r y 2, 1973 
R a t e of D e c e m b e r 18, 1972 
• S T R I C T L Y C O N F I D E N T I A L . 
T h e B o a r d of G o v e r n o r s took action today to disapprove 
a n increase in the discount rate f r o m 4-1/2 to 4 - 3 / 4 per cent 
p r o p o s e d b y the directors of one R e s e r v e B a n k , 
T h e B o a r d 
concluded that the current T r e a s u r y b o n d financing m a d e it 
undesirable to raise the discount rate at this t i m e . T h e staff 
h a s b e e n a s k e d to c o m m u n i c a t e to the Presidents that the 
B o a r d r e g a r d s information about the action a n d the B o a r d ' s 
r e a s o n s as especially sensitive at this t i m e a n d that such 
information should b e held in the strictest confidence. 

66 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
 
I t e m 
N o
-
 
1 6 
1/2/73 
THE SEALY AND SMITH FOUNDATION FOR THE JOHN SEALY HOSPITAL 
Determination Regarding "Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect 
n
°nbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amend-
^ n t s to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding 
Company Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 
*>*>" may continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, 
nonbanking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on 
J
une 30, 1968 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of 
activities 
carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company or 
subsidiary, pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on or 
before June 30, 1968, of another company engaged in such activities at 
^ e time of the acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in since 
J
une 30, 1968 (or such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
Privileges 
if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
^terraines that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentration of 
resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or 
Unsound banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a 
kank with assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
Board is required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

'67 
- 2 -
Notice of the Board's proposed review of the grandfather 
Privileges of the The Sealy and Smith Foundation for the John Sealy 
Hospital, Galveston, Texas, and an opportunity for interested persons to 
submit comments and views or request a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 
22414). The time for filing comments, views, and requests has expired, 
all 
those received have been considered by the Board in light of the 
factors set forth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following findings, 
^ e Sealy and Smith Foundation for the John Sealy Hospital, Galveston, Texas 
("Registrant"), became a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a 
r e
sult of the 1970 Amendments to the Act, by virtue of Registrant's owner-
ship of approximately 48 per cent of the voting shares of the First Hutchins-
S e
aly National Bank, Galveston, Texas ("Bank") (assets of $62.1 million as 
o f
 December 31, 1970). Bank, which was acquired by Registrant more than 
forty years ago, had total deposits of $61.9 million as of December 31, 1971, 
^presenting about 20 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
Galveston market, and is the largest of 14 banks in the Galveston market. 
Registrant also holds (and has held for more than forty years) 19.7 per 
c
ent of the voting shares of University National Bank, Galveston, Texas 
($4.8 million deposits as of December 31, 1971), the thirteenth largest bank 
i n
 the Galveston market xdLth about 1.6 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deposits therein. Bank's management, financial condition and prospects are 
r
egarded as satisfactory, and the Board has found no evidence of any unsound 
b a
nking practices. The same conclusions and findings apply with respect to 
the operations of University National Bank. 

-4-
68 
Registrant is a nonprofit organization established in 1922 to 
e n
8age directly in the operation of a charitable foundation principally 
the benefit of the John Sealy Hospital, and apparently has engaged 
i n s u c
h activities continuously since June 30, 1963. Registrant's non-
banking activities include investments in stocks, bonds, and real propertiesj 
0 w r i
ing and operating the John Sealy Hospital in Galveston and two other 
Gildings for the University of Texas Medical School; owning and operating 
Parking facilities and apartments principally for the use of the hospital 
s t a
ff; sale and leasing of land (less than 10,000 acres) now owned in Texas 
oil exploration and agricultural uses? and ownership of 19.2 per cent of 
shares of Cotton Concentration Company, Galveston, Texas, a company 
e n
gaged in the manufacturing of fiberglass pipe. It appears that all of 
t
*
le
 above activities have been engaged in continuously since June 30, 1963, 
an
<l are eligible for retention by virtue of Registrant's grandfather privileges. 
Registrant does not appear to be dominant in any of the activities 
n
 which it engages directly or indirectly. It holds total assets of 
$28.9 million as of December 31, 1971, and all of the net profits of Regis-
t r
ant are devoted to the charitable purposes of the foundation, i.e. The 
J
ohn Sealy Hospital. The John Sealy Hospital is one of three hospitals 
Galveston; and the parking facilities, apartment buildings, and two 
o t
her buildings are owned and operated in conjunction with the hospital 
the University of Texas Medical School in Galveston. The land holdings 
0 1
 Registrant are dispersed and do not appear to constitute a significant 
P°*tion of the land in Texas held for oil exploration and agricultural uses. 

70 
-4-
Cotton Concentration Company ($4.9 million in assets as of December 31, 
1970) competes with numerous fiberglass pipe manufacturers and steel pipe 
Manufacturers in the high pressure pipe market in Texas and Louisiana, and 
Produces less than 1 per cent of the total output of pipe in that market. 
On the basis of the foregoing and all the facts before the Board, 
it an 
appears that the volume, scope, and nature of the activities of Regis-
trant and its subsidiaries do not demonstrate an undue concentration of 
resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest nor 
u
asound banking practices. 
There appears to be no reason to require Registrant to terminate 
its nonbanking interests. It is the Board's judgment that, at this time, 
termination of the grandfather privileges of Registrant is not necessary 
in order to prevent an undue concentration of resources, decreased or 
unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 
However, this determination is not authority to enter into any activity 
that was not engaged in on June 30, 1968 and continuously thereafter, or 
any activity that is not the subject of this determination. Nor is this 
determination authority for Registrant to acquire additional shares in any 
company if the Registrant's holdings in said company will exceed 5 per 
cent of the outstanding voting shares of such company. 
A significant alteration in the nature or extension of Registrant's 
activities or a change in location thereof (significantly different from 
any described in this determination) will be cause for a re-evaluation by 

-5- 
' 7 0 
the Board of Registrant's activities under the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of the 
A c t
, that is, whenever the alteration or change is such that the Board finds 
that a termination of the grandfather privileges is necessary to prevent 
ar
* undue concentration of resources or any of the other evils designated 
the Act. No merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets other than 
i n
 the ordinary course of business, nor acquisition of any interest In 
a
 2oing concern, to which the Registrant or any nonbank subsidiary thereof 
is a party,may be consummated without prior approval of the Board. 
Further, 
the provision of any credit, property, or service by the Registrant or 
a n
7 subsidiary thereof shall not be subject to any condition which, if 
•^Posed by a bank, would constitute an unlawful tie-in arrangement under 
® 106 of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
The determination herein does not preclude a later review, 
^ the Board, of Registrant's nonbank activities and a future determination 
by the Board in favor of termination of grandfather benefits of Registrant. 
The determination herein is subject to the Board's authority to require 
Edification or termination of the activities of Registrant or any of 
its nonbanking subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure com-
pliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regula-
tions and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof. 
1/ 
By determination of the Board of Governors,— 
effective Decem-
ber 29, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
TSEAL] 
i./ Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 17 
1/2/73 
ESTATE OF JAMES MILLIKIN, DECEASED 
Determination Regarding "Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect 
t o
 nonbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amend-
ments to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding 
Company Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 
^ 7 0 " may continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, 
i t l
 nonbanking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on 
J u
n e 30, 1968 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of 
activities carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company or 
subsidiary, pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on 
°r before June 30, 1968, or another company engaged in such activities 
at the time of the acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in 
since June 30, 1968 (or such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
o f
 Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
Privileges if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
determines that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentration 
of 
resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
°r unsound banking practices. TJith respect to a company that controls a 
bank with assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
Board is required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

'72 
-2-
Notice of the Board's proposed review of the grandfather 
Privileges of the Estate of James Millikin, Deceased, Decatur, Illinois, 
and an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views or 
request a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414). The time for filing 
comments, views, and requests has expired, and all those received have 
b e
«m considered by the Board in light of the factors set forth in § 4(a)(2) 
o f
 the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following findings, 
"^e Estate of James Millikin, Deceased, Decatur, Illinois ("Registrant") 
became a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of the 1970 
Amendments to the Act, by virtue of Registrant's ownership of 55 per cent 
o f
 the outstanding voting shares of The Millikin National Bank of Decatur, 
Decatur, Illinois ("Bank") (assets of $105.4 million as of December 31, 1970). 
Control of this Bank was acquired by Registrant on June 3, 1909, when Regis-
trant was formed in a bequest of James Millikin, deceased. Bank had total 
deposits of $95.9 million as of December 31, 1971, representing 29.2 per 
cent of total deposits of commercial banks in Macon County, and is the 
largest of thirteen banks in Macon County, Illinois. Bank's management, 
financial condition and prospects are regarded as satisfactory, and the Board 
has found no evidence of any unsound banking practices. 
Registrant is a testamentary charitable trust administered by 
the trustees under the decedent's will for the benefit of charitable and 
educational institutions within the city of Decatur, Illinois. Registrant's 

73 
-4-
n
°nbanking activities consist of ownership and operation of rural and 
urban real estate, ownership of various stocks and bonds and other assets. 
Registrant has no subsidiary other than Bank, It appears that all of the 
a b o v e
 activities have been engaged in continuously since June 30, 1968, and 
a r e
 eligible for retention by virtue of Registrant's grandfather privileges. 
Registrant's assets, as of December 31, 1971, include two farms 
Valued at $327,246), a single family dwelling (valued at $17,000), common 
stock (valued at $250,913) other than bank stock, preferred stock (valued 
$67,725), corporate and municipal bonds and notes (valued at $396,189), 
c a
sh and U.S. Treasury bills (valued at $174,315), receivables (in the amount 
o f
 $23,306), and 88,000 shares of Bank's stock (valued at $4,840,000). Regis-
trant controls approximately 0.2 per cent of total rental farmland in 
Christian County, Illinois; 0.3 per cent of total rental farmland in Shelby 
County, Illinois; and .01 per cent of the total number of rental occupied 
U n i
t s in Decatur, Illinois. 
On the basis of the foregoing and all the facts before the Board, 
it 
appears that the volume, scope, and nature of the activities of Regis-
trant and its subsidiaries do not demonstrate an undue concentration of 
r
esources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest nor 
U n
sound banking practices. 
There appears to be no reason to require Registrant to terminate 
nonbanking interests. It is the Board's judgment that, at this time, 
t e
rmination of the grandfather privileges of Registrant is not necessary 

74 
-4-
i n o r d
e r to prevent an undue concentration of resources, decreased or 
u
afair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 
However, this determination is not authority to enter into any activity 
t h a t w a s
 not engaged in on June 30, 1968 and continuously thereafter, 
0 r
 any activity that is not the subject of this determination. Nor is this 
determination authority for Registrant to acquire additional shares in any 
c
°mpany if the Registrant's holdings in said company will exceed 5 per cent 
o f
 the outstanding voting shares of such company. 
A significant alteration in the nature or extension of Registrant's 
activities or a change in location thereof (significantly different from 
a n y
 ^escribed in this determination) will be cause for a re-evaluation by 
t h
® Board of Registrant's activities under the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of 
e
 Act, that is, whenever the alteration or change is such that the Board 
fin " 
uus that a termination of the grandfather privileges is necessary to pre-
V e n
t an undue concentration of resources or any of the other evils designated 
i n
 the Act. No merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets other than in 
th 
e
 ordinary course of business, nor acquisition of any interest in a going 
concern, to which the Registrant or any nonbank subsidiary thereof is a 
p a r t
y , may be consummated without prior approval of the Board. Further, the 
Provision of any credit, property, or service by the Registrant or any 
Su
bsid±ary thereof shall not be subject to any condition which, if imposed 
y
 a bank, would constitute an unlawful tie-in arrangement under § 106 of 
{.L 
e
 Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
The determination herein does not preclude a later review, 
t 
y
 the Board, of Registrant's nonbank activities and a future determination 
the Board in favor of termination of grandfather benefits of Registrant. 

'75 
-2-
T h
e determination herein is subject to the Board's authority to require 
m
°dification or termination of the activities of Registrant or any of 
it;
s nonbanking subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure com-
pliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regula-
tions and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof. 
1/ 
By determination of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 29, 
1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
^ r i m m
t l n S f
°
r t h l S 
a c t j L o n :
 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
"^er, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

76 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 
18 
1 / 2 / 7 3 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK VOTING TRUST 
"Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect 
to nonbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amend-
ments to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Hold-
ing Company Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered 
in 1970" may continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, 
in nonbanking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on 
J u
n e 30, 1968 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of 
a c
tivities carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company 
°r subsidiary, pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on 
o r
 before June 30, 1968, of another company engaged in such activities 
a t
 the time of the acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in 
since June 30, 1968 (or such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grand-
father privileges if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the 
Board determines that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentra-
tion of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
°r unsound banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a 
b
ank with assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, 
the Board is required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

-2-
Notice of the Board's proposed review of **ny grandfather 
Privileges of the First National Bank Voting Trust, Hollywood, Florida, 
a
nd an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views or request a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414). The time 
filing comments, views, and requests has expired, and all those 
received have been considered by the Board in light of the factors set 
f
°rth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
In connection with the Board's review of the operations of 
F
irst National Bank Voting Trust ("Trust"), relating to a possible 
termination of grandfather privileges, the facts presented to the 
Board indicate that the Trust does not constitute a "company" as 
defined in § 2(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act. The evidence 
before the Board shows that the Trust does not participate in the 
management or policies of First National Bank of Hollywood (apart 
from voting for the election of directors) and is a 10 year voting 
trust that, by its terms, will terminate on or before Hay 19, 1974. 
Accordingly, as presently organized and administered, the First 
National Bank Voting Trust does not constitute a "bank holding com-
pany" under the Act and the question of the termination of grand-
father privileges of First National Bank Voting Trust is moot. 

-2-
This conclusion is based upon facts presented to the Board, 
a
nd any material change in those facts may result in a different 
conclusion. 
Board of Governors, December 29*, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
