MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 3, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Adoption of revised Regulation A, 
Extensions of Credit by Federal 
Reserve Banks. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, April 3, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 9:45 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman If 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
M r . Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
M r . O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bilby, Consultant on Federal Reserve 
lending 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
1/ 
Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1081 
4/3/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. 
The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tions of The Farmers & Merchants Insurance Agency, Inc., Colby, Kansas, 
(1) to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares 
of The Farmers and Merchants State Bank, Colby, Kansas; and (2) to 
continue to engage in insurance agency activities in Colby, a community 
with a population of less than 5,000. An order reflecting that decision 
was authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Presidents and 
Chairmen of all Federal Reserve Banks establishing nonofficial salary 
guidelines for Phase III of the President's Economic Stabilization 
Program. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Chairman of the 
House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce commenting on H. R. 20, 
a bill that would, among other things, expand the consumer protection 
powers of the Federal Trade Commission. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Requests for hearings. Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, had filed applications to acquire shares of the following 
Iowa banks: 
(1) Bettendorf Bank and Trust Company, Bettendorf; (2) The 
First National Bank of Dubuque, Dubuque; and (3) Security State Bank, 
Keokuk. Subsequently, the Iowa Independent Bankers had protested the 
proposed acquisitions and requested that a formal hearing be held in 
regard to each of the applications. 

1082 
4 / 3 / 7 3 
-3-
In a memorandum dated March 26, 1973, the Legal Division stated 
that the issues and facts raised by the protestants were not such that 
a formal hearing or oral presentation before the Board or a designated 
representative would be useful for their resolution. The Division 
therefore recommended that the Board deny the requests for hearings. 
The Division further recommended that the letter advising the protes-
tants that their requests for hearings had been denied afford them an 
opportunity to submit any additional written comments within ten working 
days after receipt of the Board's letter. 
The Board unanimously approved the staff recommendation. 
Copies 
of the letters sent to the protestants and to the applicant are attached 
as Items 4 and 5. 
Consumer protection legislation. With a memorandum dated 
April 2, 1973, Mr. Rippey submitted a draft letter to the Chairman of 
the House Committee on Government Operations commenting on H. R. 14, 
H. R. 21, and H . R. 564, bills that would establish within the Government 
one or more new agencies to coordinate consumer protection programs and 
to represent consumers. Mr. Rippey also submitted a draft letter to the 
Chairman of the Subcommittee on Executive Reorganization and Government 
Research of the Senate Committee on Government Operations commenting on 
S. 707 and S. 1160, bills generally similar to the House bills outlined 
above. 

1083 
4 / 3 / 7 3 
-3-
After certain changes had been agreed upon, the Board unanimously 
approved the letters in the form attached as Items 6 and 7. 
Chairman 
Burns entered the meeting at this point. 
Revision of Regulation A . 
In November 1972 the Board published 
for comment a proposed revision of Regulation A, Advances and Discounts 
by Federal Reserve Banks, designed primarily to assist smaller banks in 
meeting the seasonal borrowing needs of their communities. 
The period 
for comment ended on February 28, 1973, and in a memorandum dated March 26, 
1973, the Staff Committee on Federal Reserve Credit recommended that the 
Board approve the revised Regulation A, to be entitled Extensions of 
Credit by Federal Reserve Banks, with accompanying Federal Register 
announcement. 
The staff also submitted drafts of the following for the 
Board's consideration: 
(1) a press release; (2) a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Banks setting forth guidelines to be followed in carrying out 
the seasonal borrowing privilege; and (3) proposed Reserve Bank instruc-
tions to member banks regarding the seasonal borrowing privilege. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the revised 
Regulation, effective April 19, 1973. The supporting documents were 
also approved, with the understanding that certain changes might be 
made by Governor Mitchell, in consultation with Messrs. Holland and 
Melnicoff. Copies of the revised Regulation and the press release are 
attached under Item No. 8. A copy of the letter transmitting the guide-
lines for Reserve Banks and the instructions to be given member banks 
regarding the seasonal borrowing privilege is attached as Item No. 9• 

1084 
4 / 3 / 7 3 
-3-
Proposed Trade Reform Act. With a memorandum dated March 28, 
1973, Mr. Bryant presented a draft letter to the Office of Management 
and Budget commenting on a draft bill entitled "Trade Reform Act of 
1973." 
During discussion, it was noted that several changes were 
required in the draft letter and it was agreed that Chairman Burns 
would work with the staff on the necessary changes. Governor Robertson, 
however, stated that he chose not to vote on this matter. 
The Board 
thereupon approved the letter, Governor Robertson abstaining, with the 
understanding that the letter would be revised and submitted to Chairman 
Burns for final clearance. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to 
the Office of Management and Budget is attached as Item No. 10. 
Hunt Commission recommendations. 
The Department of the Treasury 
had transmitted to the Board for its comments suggested legislative pro-
posals that had grown out of the recommendations of the President's 
Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation (the Hunt Commission). 
In a memorandum dated March 27, 1973, the Division of Research and 
Statistics submitted proposed comments to be forwarded to the Treasury. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously agreed that a letter 
would be sent to the Treasury by the Board's Secretary reflecting the 
views expressed during the course of the discussion, and that a draft 
of such letter would be submitted to Chairman Burns for final clearance. 

1085 
4/3/73 
-6-
A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Treasury is attached as 
Item No. 11. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

, 10 SB 
Item No, 1 
4/3/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE FARMERS & MERCHANTS INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Continuation of Insurance Agency Activities 
The Farmers & Merchants Insurance Agency, Inc., Colby, Kansas, 
has applied for the 3oard's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
through acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Farmers and Merchants State Bank, Colby, Kansas ("Bank'
1
) . 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's approval 
under § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of 
the Board's Regulation Y for Applicant to continue to engage in the 
activities of a general insurance agency in a community of less than 
5,000 persons. 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in 
accordance with §§ 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the applications and 
all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) of 
the Act. 
Applicant's sole shareholder acquired Applicant's shares as part 
of a transaction whereby he acquired over 70 per cent of Bank's shares 
from the former principal owners of Bank in February, 1972. 
Applicant 
was incorporated, just a day prior to the sale described above, to engage 
in insurance agency activities that previously had been conducted by Bank's 
former principal owners as a proprietorship and later as a partnership. 

-2-
1087 
Bank, with deposits of $14.5 million, is the larger of two banks in Colby 
and the largest of three banks in Thomas County. 
(All banking data are as 
of June 30, 1972.) 
On the facts herein, and particularly since the trans-
action involves only a change from individual to corporate ownership of a 
single bank, consummation of the proposal will have no adverse effects on 
existing or potential competition. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial resources 
and prospects of Applicant and Bank appear to be satisfactory and consistent 
with approval. Although Applicant will assume debt incurred by its owner 
when his shares of Bank were acquired and in connection with an equivalent 
offer to minority shareholders, it appears that such debt may be serviced 
without placing an undue strain on Bank earnings. Considerations relating 
to the convenience ana needs of the communities involved, with respect to 
the acquisition of Bank, are consistent with approval. 
It is the Board's 
judgment that the transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application to acquire Bank should be approved. 
Applicant seeks to continue the operation of a general insurance 
agency which has operated in close association with Bank for many years. 
The insurance agency is located at Bank's premises in Colby (population 
approximately 4,700). The Board has previously determined by regulation 
that the conduct of a general insurance agency in a community of less than 
5,000 persons is closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)(iii)(a)). 
Gross commission income of the agency was reported as $31,000 in 1971. 
The evidence indicates that nine other insurance agencies compete with 

1088 
-9-
Applicant, including an agency operated by a bank holding company owning 
the other bank in Colby. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation 
of the proposal would result in any undue concentration of resources, 
unfair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, or 
other adverse effects on the public interest. 
It does appear that 
approval of the application will assure the community of Colby of the 
continued operation of a convenient alternative source of insurance agency 
services. Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
the record, the Board has determined that the public interest factors that 
the Board is required to consider regarding the continuation of Applicant's 
insurance agency activities are favorable and the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications to acquire Bank 
shares and to continue to engage in insurance agency activities are approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The acquisition of Bank shares shall not 
be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order nor (b) later than three months after the effective date 
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. The determination as to the insurance agency activities is 
subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to 
the Board's authority to require such modification or termination of the 

1089 
-9-
activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
prevent evasion thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 3, 1973. 
(Signed) 
Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ 
Voting for~this action: 
Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Brimmer and Bucher. 

• 
•• \i • 
* 
A • * 
f? 
fen 
w • 
.. 
mm 
m
m
-
-
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 2 
4/3/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1973 
The Board of Governors has established the following guide-
lines for use by the Boards of Directors and the Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks in the administration of the nonofficial wage 
and salary program, for Phase III of the President's Economic 
Stabilization Program. 
These guidelines are intended to implement the provisions 
of Title 6, Chapter I, Part 130 (Stabilisation of Mages and Salaries) 
of the Economic Stabilisation Act or 1970. 
Inquiries regarding inter-
pretation and/or clarification should be directed to the Board's Com-
mittee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities. 
INCREASES TM SALARIES 
Each Federal Reserve Bank should limit all salary adjustments 
to the level required by sound management and personnel procedures. 
The Hoard of Directors should establish an annual aggregate salary 
increase standard for each office (considered an appropriate employee 
unit) relating to movements in relevant prevailing salaries in the city 
or metropolitan area in which that-Federal Reserve office is located. 
II ov: ever, in no case should the standard be such as to allow an increase 
in the aggregate salary level of each office of a Reserve Bank of over 
5.5 per cent of the compensation base. No transfers between offices 
of any part of the aggregate salary increase standard is permitted. 
COMPENSATION BASF, 
In computing the compensation base, the most recent repre-
sentative nonofficial payroll period ending on or before November 13, 
1972, will be used. 
Inclusion in the computations will be limited to 
all permanent, full-time employees. 
The compensation base also shall include employee benefit 
costs which would have been incurred during the base year (November 14, 
1971 through November 13, 1972), computed by costing each benefit item 

1091 
-2-
in effect on the last day of the base year at the rate in effect on 
that date. 
The amounts of individual increases at each office within 
the maximum set by the 5.5 per cent salary increase standard as pre-
scribed by these guidelines will be left to the Reserve Bank s dis-
cretion. 
The compensation base, once established, will not be changed; 
therefore, the salaries of employees given bona fide promotions will^ 
remain in the compensation base; as also will salaries of employees in 
bona fide learner pro-rains which were in operation prior to August 15, 
1971, and salaries of "low wage" (below $2.75 an hour) employees. 
EXCEPTIONS FROM CHARGES TO 5.5 PER CENT SALARY INCREASE STANDARD 
Salary increases given in connection with the following will 
not be charged to the 5.5 per cent salary increase standard: 
(1) bona 
fide promotions; (2) learner programs which were in operation prior to 
August 15, 1971; and (3) increases in excess of the 5.5 per cent standard 
that are given to "low wage" (below $2.75 an hour) employees.
 
K
°tc: 
Regarding (3) any portion of a "low wage" increase that is above $2.75 
an hour must be included in the standard. 
BriPI.07EE BENEFITS 
The amount of money needed to fund any increases in employee 
benefits described under the Cost of Living Council regulations as 
"included benefits," will have to be charged to the 5.5 per cent salary 
increase standard,"to be reflected on an individual office basis. 
Increases in employee benefits considered by the Cost of Living 
Council regulations as "qualified benefits" generally will be handled on 
a System basis. There is a maximum of a .7 per cent increase permissible 
in the control year beginning November 14, 1972, plus any carry-over ::rom 
the same r,er cent applied in the previous control year ending November 13, 
1972. Any .excess of this combination will be charged to the 5.5 per cent 
salary increase standard; however, it appears at this time that the total 
of the employee retirement and insurance benefits effective October 1, 
1972, and January 1, 1973, will be within the maximum permissible per-
centage. 
STAFF TURNOVER. ADDITIONAL OR DISCONTINUED POSITIONS 
Staff turnover will not affect the compensation base figure. 
There will be no adjustment in the compensation base for discontinued 
positions, nor will there be any addition to the compensation base for 
additional, positions. 

10 ? 
-3-
JJEPORTING REQUIREMENTS 
Initial reports w i l l be submitted by Reserve Banks for the 
period November 14, 1972, through March 31, 1973, and quarterly there-
after for the duration of Phase III. 
Reports should be submitted within* 
15 days of the/ close of the reporting period to the Committee on Federal 
Reserve Bank Activities. 
A revised report form will be devised prior 
to expiration of the first reporting period. 
The Board of Governors will report to the Cost of Living Council 
with regard to the application of Phase III for wage and salary adminis-
tration on behalf ol the Federal Reserve Banks, should this be necessary. 
All Federal Reserve Banks will keep records of wage rate changes, and 
will have the obligation of producing these upon request. 
INTERPRETATION CF GUIDELINES 
Any request for interpretation of these guidelines or the 
application of Cost of Living Council regulations to the Federal Reserve 
Banks should be submitted to the Board's Committee on Federal Reserve 
Bank Activities in view of the desirability for consistency throughout 
the System in the administration of this program. 
Very truly yours, 
V 
' \ \J '' 
" 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENTS AND CHAIRMEN OF ALL~FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

s i 
< 
Item No. 3 
4/3/73 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
April 3, 1973 
The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers 
Chairman 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D . C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to' your request of February 15 
for a report on H.R. 20, a bill which would, among other things, 
expand the consumer protection powers of the Federal Trade Com-
mission. 
Title II of H.R. 20 grants the F.T.C. the authority to 
issue rules defining unfair or deceptive acts or practices, and 
would direct the Federal banking agencies to enforce any rules 
F.T.C. might promulgate affecting financial institutions under the 
jurisdiction of the bank supervisory agencies. 
The Board expressed its views on a similar proposal 
embodied in Title II of H.R. 4809 as reported on June 29, 1972, 
by the Subcommittee on Commerce and Finance. 
Our views were 
set: forth at that time in a letter dated July 13, 1972, to the 
Honorable William L. Springer, and we-wish to reiterate those 
views today. 
With regard to financial institutions, the Board con-
sidered two questions relating to legislation along the lines of 
Title II of H.R. 20: 
firstj what is the proper locus of enforce-
ment authority; and, second, what is the proper locus of rule-
vriting authority? 
The Board believes that enforcement authority should be 
divided, as provided in Title II, among the three Federal bank 
supervisory agencies (as was done in the Truth in Lending Act) 
arid that rule-writing authority should be placed in a single 
banking agency. 
Ideally, rule-writing authority for all agencies, banking 
and nonbanking, should be placed in a single agency, to avoid the 
problems of possibly conflicting rules as to what may be "unfair 
I 

16 
Item No. 4 
B O A R D 
• F G O V E R N • R S 
4/3/73 
• F" T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
O O A R D 
April 3, 1973 
REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Richard W . Berglund, Esq. 
400 Central National Bank Building 
Des Moines, Iowa 
50309 
This is in response to your requests that the Board order 
formal hearings to consider the applications of Northwest Bancorporation, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting 
- shares of Bettendorf Bank and Trust Company, Bettendorf, Iowa; The 
Fitst National Bank of Dubuque, Dubuque, Iowa; and Security State Bank, 
Keokuk, Iowa.' 
The Board has considered your requests, but has concluded 
that the issues "you raise are not such that formal hearings would be 
required or useful for their resolution. 
The Board, instead, has 
decided to proceed on the basis of written comments heretofore re-
ceived and any elaboration thereof, together with any relevant 
additional comments, and supportive evidence you may decide to submit 
that may aid the Board in passing upon the subject applications. 
Such 
written materials should be received by the Board not later than ten 
working days after receipt of this letter. . 
In the interest of fairness, and in order to expedite 
disposition of this matter, the Board requests that copies of any 
additional materials or written communications submitted to the Board 
be simultaneously furnished to Mr. Henry T. Rutledge, Chairman, 
Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55480, of whom we 
Dear Mr. Berglund 

< 
17 
The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers 
' 
-2-
or deceptive" acts or practices, particularly where the same 
classes of creditors are involved. 
However, the Board believes 
that a single bank supervisory agency (as opposed to the Federal 
Trade Commission) should be given rule-writing authority over 
Federally-supervised financial institutions. 
While this would 
involve division of rule-writing authority between two agencies, 
the two would be concerned with different classes of creditors, 
and, to a certain extent, different trade practices. 
Through 
their long experience with the unique character of financial 
institutions, the Federal bank supervisory agencies have developed 
the requisite background and expertise to formulate rules sensi-
tive to the complex roles of these institutions in the national 
economy. 
y 
One consideration which motivates the Board to recommend 
that Congress provide a banking agency with the authority to write 
rules for Federally-supervised financial institutions in dealing 
with consumers is the rapid change taking place in the payments 
system. 
Financial institutions are currently in the transitional 
stage between the use of checks for the settlement of accounts 
and an electronic payments system. A number of innovations 
promise to become a part of the future system of electronic pay-
ments, including credit cards and point-of-sale terminals for 
on-line computer operation. 
There is no question that consumers 
will be the ultimate beneficiaries of the changes that are begin-
ning to be made in the payments field, but in this critical 
transitional phase where the final shape of the system is still 
unclear, regulatory action must be carefully designed to reflect 
both the legitimate interests of consumers and the concurrent 
need that financial institutions be allowed to proceed with their 
innovations and experiments leading toward the new payments system. 
The surest way for this objective to be served, we 
believe, is for Congress to give a single banking agency the 
authority to write rules against unfair and deceptive consumer 
practices in the financial institution field. 
Sincerely yours, 
. 
fiLszzj 
Arthur F. Burns 

AO 96 
Richard W . Berglund, Esq. 
-2-
are making a similar request, to furnish you copies of materials or 
written communications which they may submit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1037 
..'jofftW-
r 
B O A R D 
• F 
G D V E R N D R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
4/3/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
H O A R D 
April 3, 1973 
Mr. Henry T. Rut ledge, Chairman 
Northwest Bancorporation 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55480 
Dear Mr. Rut ledge: 
Enclosed please find copies of certain letters and petitions 
which the Board has received commenting adversely on your proposed 
acquisitions of 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of Bettendorf 
Bank and Trust Company, Bettendorf, Iowa; The First National Bank of 
Dubuque, Dubuque, Iowa; and Security State Bank, Keokuk, Iowa. 
The Board has considered the requests for formal hearings 
and concluded that the issues raised are not such that formal hearings 
would be required or be useful in their resolution. 
However, the 
Board has decided to proceed on the basis of written comments and, in 
this connection, has invited the protestants to submit elaborations 
of their previous comments, additional comments, and supportive 
written evidence as may aid the Board in considering the subject 
applications. 
In the interest of fairness, the Board extends to you a 
similar opportunity to comment on the materials presented to the Board. 
We have asked the protestants to furnish you with copies of their 
written ;communications to the Board and ask.that you extend them a 
similar courtesy to expedite disposition of this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
^(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enc]osures 

. 1098 
Item No. 6 
4/3/73 
mm 
I si 
C H A I R M A N O P T H E H O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
April. 12, 1973 
The Honorable Chet Ilolifield 
Chairman 
Committee on Government Operations 
llou.se of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request of January 12 f.or a report 
on three bills--]].R. 14, H.R. 21, and H.R. 564--whose general pur-
pose is to establish within the Government one or more new agencies 
to coordinate consumer protection programs and to represent consumers. 
Vie have the following comments to offer. 
One matter the bills do not include, and which ve continue to recom-
mend be included, is the transfer to any new consumer agency of the 
function of administering the Truth in Lending A^t, which the Board 
now retains under Public Law 90-321, the Consu;iu.v Credit Protection 
Act. 
The Board presently prescribes regulations under the Act, 
determines exemptions for States with substantially similar laws 
and adequate enforcement machinery, and enforce: the lav; with regard 
to State member banks. 
The responsibility for i:le writing and for 
determining State exemptions should be vested in an agency that 
devot es full time to consumer affairs. 
Acceptance of this recom-
mendation would enable the Board to devote its full time to its 
primary responsibility in the formulation and execution of monetary 
policy and its additional responsibilities in the field of bank 
supervision. 
In this connection, the Board notes that the recent 
report of the National Commission on Consumer Finance contains a 
recommendation for the transfer of the Board's Truth in Lending 
function to a Bureau of Consumer Credit which would be established 
within a new Consumer Protection Agency. 
In addition to rule writ-
ing authority, the proposed Bureau would have enforcement authority 
as we11. 
The Board questions the need for the requirement in Sec. 206(a)(3) 
of H.R. 21 that the proposed Consumer Protection Agency disseminate 
annually "information, statistics, and other dara concerning . . . 
interest rates . . . . I n 
quarterly and annual reports to Congress, 

JLO»/f I 
The Honorable Chet Holifield 
-2-
the Board includes a great deal of information on the economy in 
general, including the behavior of interest rates. 
Using basic 
data obtained from the Board's publications and other sources, the 
proposed agency could comment: on interest rates as well, but the 
value to the public of such commentary, which "i s now readily 
available from numerous sources, would seem of doubtful value. 
There are significantly different provisions in the three bills 
dealing with the pavers of the new office or agency to obtain 
information from other Federal agencies upon request. We antic-
ipate that there would be little occasion for the exercise of this 
authority with respect to matters under the Borrd's jurisdiction, 
particularly if Congress accepts our recommendation to transfer 
the function of prescribing Truth in Lending regulations. 
Each in its own way, the bills attempt to reconcile the legitimate 
interests of the new agency in obtaining information held by other 
agencies with the equally legitimate need for confidentiality as 
determined by the other agencies. 
The report o.. your committee in 
the 92d Congress (House Report No. 92-542) recognised this problem 
and dealt with it by establishing safeguards f o ; the proposed dis-
closures of information. 
For example, the report states that 
'release of information would be limited by the exemptions from 
public availability set out in 5 U.S.C., section 552(b) (the 
"Freedom of Information Act" amendment to the Administrative Pro-
cedure Act)." 
A Senate report on similar legislation (Senate 
Report No. 92-1.100) provides considerably narro* jr grounds for an 
agency's refusing to release information. 
H,R. 14 appears to reflect to a degree the Sen: e report's approach 
to the information question, providing that feci, ral agencies, with 
c.ertain speci fic oxc.cptions , sha 11 "aliov.
T
 acces. • to all docvments , 
papers, and records in (their) possession which the (head of the 
new agency) deems necessary for the performance of his functions . . 
H.R. 14 also includes an appeals procedure for agencies receiving a 
request from the new agency for information involving trade secrets 
or commercial or financial data, but the agency head still retains 
the power to obtain "immediate access" to such 
formation after 
filing a written statement that access is "like y to be necessary 
in order to protect public health or safety or 
o protect against 
immediate or imminent substantial economic injit / due to fraud or 
unconscionable conduct. . . . " 
The Board believes that unpublished information on monetary policy 
matters is clearly in the category of sensitive information which 

11 
The Honorable Chet Holifield 
-3-
should not be available, under any circumstances, to the new 
agency. 
In addition, reports of examinations of State member 
banks, and information related to those reports, fall in this 
category. 
The relationship between bank examiners and the banks 
that they examine has traditionally been a privileged and con-
fidential one. 
It is essential that this relationship be pre-
served, not only as a means of ensuring effective supervision of 
banks, but also to protect the privacy of those who do business 
with hanks. 
If there is any doubt on the subject, we believe it 
appropriate that such doubt be removed, since protection of the 
confidentiality of this information is essential to the effective 
execution of the Board's responsibilities. 
We note that S. 1160, a bill introduced by Senator Allen and five 
other Senators on March 8, would give the Consumer Protection 
Agency access to information in the possession of other agencies 
only at the discretion of the other agencies. 
In addition, S. 1160 
would deny the new agency access to information in certain sensitive 
areas, including trade secrets or other privileged commercial in-
formation. 
The Board concurs in this approach and recommends that 
similar provisions be incorporated in the legislation before your 
committee. 
Another area of concern to the Board is the power granted the new 
agency to intervene in the proceedings of other Federal agencies. 
Both bills would allow the Consumer Protection Agency to intervene 
in the formal rulemaking proceedings of other agencies, the kinds 
that are conducted on the record with an opportunity for a hearing. 
But H.R. 14 would go further, and allow the new agency to intervene 
in less formal proceedings as well. 
This authority, if given to 
the new agency, would present very serious problems to the Board. 
There are certain actions the Board takes, such as setting margin 
requirements for the purchase of securities on credit, and approving 
changes in the discount rate at Reserve Banks, which are directly 
related to the Board's responsibilities in the area of monetary 
policy. 
Intervention by the new agency in the processes which lead 
to such actions you Id destroy the confidentiality which is essential 
for the conduct of monetary policy and would severely impair the 
Board's capacity for timely, decisive action. 
The Board supports the provisions of H.R. 21, v?! ich would limit the 
new agency to intervening in. formal rulemaking or adjudicatory pro-
ceedings. However> if the committee adopts the approach of H.R. 14, 

The Honorable Chet Holifield 
-4-
11C1 
then we would recommend the insertion of the following language 
on page 19, line 10, by deleting the period and inserting: 
To be consistent, the same language should be inserted cn line 8, 
page 22. 
Also, the following should be inserted on line 17, page 18, after 
striking the period: 
For further substantive commentary on the three bills, the Board 
defers to the Office, of Management and Budget and other Executive 
Branch agencies. We appreciate the opportunity you have afforded 
us to comment on these bills, and express the hope that our com-
ments trill prove useful to you and your committee in the considera-
tion of this important legislation. 
, except when the agency for good ca.ue. finds 
that such intervention or participant'; a is 
impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the 
public interest. 
in accordance with subsection (c) below. 
Sincerc2y you rs, 
Arthur 
. Burns 

ill 12 
- 
Item No. 7 
• 
4/3/73 
C H A I R M A N OK T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. H05S1 
April 1.2, 1973 
The Honorable Abraham Ribicoff 
Chairman 
Subcommittee on Executive Reorganization 
and Government Research 
Committee on Government Operations 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Cha irman: 
1 am writing in response to your request of March 5 for comment 
on S. 707, 
a bill which you introduced on February 1 and which 
is cosponsored by five other Senators. 
Subsequently, on March 8, 
Senator Allen and five cosponsors introduced S. 1160, and you 
have requested the Board's views on this bill as well. 
Both of 
these, bills would establish within the Executive Branch an agency 
(or agencies) to coordinate consumer protection programs and to 
r e p r e s e n t c o a s u mc r s . 
One matter the bills do not include, and which we continue to 
recommend be included, is the transfer to any m 
consumer agency 
of the function of administering the Truth in Leading Act, which 
the Board now retains under Public Law 90-321, 11.e Consumer Credit 
Protection Act. 
The Board presently prescribes regulations under 
the Act, determines exemptions for States with substantially 
similar laws and adequate enforcement machinery, and enforces the 
law with regard to State member banks. 
Hie responsibility for 
rule writing and for determining State exemptioi 
should be vested 
in an agency that devotes full time to consumer . ffairs. 
Accep-
tance of this recommendation would enable the Board to devote its 
full time to its primary responsibility in the formulation and 
execution of monetary policy and its additional responsibilities 
in the field of bank supervision. 
In this connc cion, the Board 
notes that the recent report of the National Con. ission on Con-
sumer Finance contains a recommendation for the 
ransfer of the 
Board's Truth in Lending function to a Bureau oi Consumer Credit 
v/hich would be established within a new Consumei Protection 
Agency. 
In addition to rule writing authority, the proposed 
Bureau would have enforcement authority as well. 

1103 
The Honorable Abraham Ribicoff 
-2-
There are significant: differences in S. 707 and S. 1160, and one 
area of particular importance to the Board in which the bills 
diverge is that dealing with the powers of the Consumer Protection 
Agency to gain access to information in the possession of another 
Federal agency. We anticipate that there would be little occasion 
for the exercise of this authority with respect to matters under 
the Board's jurisdiction, particularly if Congress accepts our 
recommendation to transfer the function of prescribing Truth in 
lend ing roguI ations. 
Under S. 707, the new agency would have broad powers to obtain a 
wide range of information from other Federal agencies. 
The bill 
includes an appeals procedure for agencies receiving a request from 
the new agency lor information involving trade r.ecrets or commercial 
or financial data, but the head of the new agency still retains the 
power to obtain "immediate access" to such info; mation after filing 
a written statement that access is "likely to b* necessary in order 
to protect public health or safety or to protect: against immediate 
or imminent substantial economic injury due to fraud or unconscion-
able conduct . . . ." 
S. 1160, on the other hand, would give the Consumer Protection 
Agency access to information in the possession of oMu.r agencies 
only at the discretion of the other agencies. 
In addition, S. 13.60 
would deny the now agency access to information ' r; certain sensitive 
areas, including trade secrets or other privilc , d commercial in-
formation. 
The Board concurs in this approach i id recommends that 
language similar to that in S. 1160 be included in any bill reported 
by your subcommittee. 
The Board believes that unpublished information, on monetary policy 
matters is clearly in the category of sensitive information which 
should not be available, under any circumstance6, to the new agency. 
In addition, reports of examinations of State member banks, and 
information related to those reports, fall in t'i.s category. 
The 
relationship between bank examiners and the ban!s that they examine 
has traditionally been a privileged and confidential one. 
It is 
essential that this relationship be preserved, not only as a means 
of ensuring effective supervision of banks, but :Iso to protect the 
privacy of those who do business with banks.
 
r
.;e believe the lan-
guage in S. 1160 referred to above wouid adequately meet this 
requirement of confidentiality. 
If there is an 
doubt on the subject, 
we believe it appropriate that such doubt be removed, since protec-
tion of the confidential!ty of this information is essential to the 
effective execution of the Board's responsibilities. 

1104 
The Honorable Abraham Ribicoff 
-3-
Another area of concern to the Board is the power granted the new 
agency to intervene in the proceedings of other Federal agencies. 
Both bills would allow the Consumer Protection Agency to intervene 
in the formal rulemaking proceedings of other agencies, the kinds 
that are conducted on the record with an opportunity for a hearing. 
But S. 707 would go further, and allow the new agency to intervene 
in less formal proceedings as well. 
This authority, if given to 
the new agency, would present very serious problems to the Board. 
Hi ere are certain actions the Board takes, such as setting margin 
requirements for the purchase of securities on credit, and approv-
ing changes in the discount rate at Reserve Banks, which are 
dilectly related to the Board's responsibilities in the area of 
monetary policy. 
Intervention by the new agency in the processes 
which lead to such actions would destroy the confidentiality which 
is essential for the conduct of monetary policy and would severely 
impair the Board's capacity for timely, decisive action. 
The Board supports the provisions in S. 1160. which would limit the 
new agency to intervening in formal rulemaking or adjudicatory pro-
ceedings. 
However, if the subcommittee adopts the approach oi 
S. 707, then we would recommend the insertion of the following 
language on page 16, line 20, by deleting the period and inserting: 
To be consistent, the same language should be inserted on line 18 
of page 19. 
Also, the following should be inserted on line 0, page 16, after 
striking the period: 
For further substantive commentary on the three bills, the Board 
defers to the Office of Management and Budget and other Executive 
Branch agencies. We appreciate the opportunity you have afforded 
us to comment on these bills, and express the hope that our comments 
will prove useful to you and your subcommittee i n the consideration 
of this important legislation. 
, except when the agency for good CCJSJ finds that 
such intervention or participation is impracticable 
unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest. 
• 1 
in accordance with subsection (c) belcw. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

Item N o . 8 
4/3/73 
For immediate release 
April 5, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today revisions in its "discount window" regulations 
designed primarily to assist smaller banks to meet the seasonal 
borrowing needs of their communities. The changes are effective 
April 19, 1973. 
The revisions, which are substantially the same as those 
proposed for comment by the Board last November 21, will also: 
1. Hake a number of technical and clarifying changes in 
the Board's Regulation A , which governs 
lending by Federal Reserve 
Banks, regarding the eligibility of paper that can be accepted by 
Reserve Banks as collateral for advances at the discount rate. 
2. 
Continue t.o provide, as in the past, for credit to 
assist a member bank in adjusting to temporary requirements for funds 
or to cushion more persistent outflows, pending an orderly adjustment 
- of a member bank's assets and liabilities. 
3. Reaffirm the System's readiness to extend credit to 
member banks in emergency or unusual circumstances, and also to make 
credit available in emergency situations to other financial 
institutions, corporations,' partnerships and individuals on the 
security of Government obligations. 

, 1106 
u 2
 u 
The Board said that about 2,000 member banks, based on 
historical lending and deposit patterns, have substantial seasonal 
calls for credit in their communities. The vast majority of these 
banks have no more than $50 million in total deposits. 
Today's action is a further step in a program by the Board 
to implement recommendations made in a System report entitled 
"Reappraisal of the Federal Reserve Discount Mechanism" and published 
in July of 1968 by a Federal Reserve System task force. Since that 
time, the System has incorporated into its procedures the substance 
of task force recommendations relating to emergency credit to member 
and nonmember depository institutions. The reasonal borrowing 
privilege announced today is consistent with task force recommendations. 
This new seasonal lending arrangement will be available 
to member banks that lack reasonably reliable access to national 
tnoney markets. 
It is intended to assist them in meeting seasonal 
needs for funds, arising from a recurring pattern of movements in 
deposits and loans that persists for at least eight weeks. 
An eligible bank will be required under this arrangement 
to provide part, of its own seasonal nceds--up to 5 per cent of its 
average total deposits in the preceding Calendar year. 
It may obtain 
its additional seasonal needs by borrowing from the Federal Reserve. 

.. 1107 
- 3 -
The- bank will be required to arrange in advance with its 
Reserve Bank for seasonal borrowing. Credit under this arrangement 
will be extended to member banks for periods of up to 90 days at a 
time. Under ordinary circumstances, a Federal Reserve Bank will be 
Prepared to grant renewals extending the borrowing for the duration 
the demonstrated seasonal need. 
Ho change in the stance of monetary policy, in either the 
short or the long run, is intended or expected to result from the 
revision of Regulation A. 
A copy of the revised regulation is attached. 
- 0 -
Attachment 

1108 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
.SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 201 - ADVANCES AND DISCOUNTS BY FEDEPAL RESERVE BAifKS 
Revision of Regulation 
By Notice of Proposed Rule Making published in the FEDEPAL 
REGISTER on November 28, 1972 (37 F.R. 25177), the Board proposed a 
visicm of its Regulation relating to advances and discounts by the 
•ederal Reserve Banks. After consideration of all comments received, 
t-i 
Board has adopted a revision of that Regulation in the form of 
amendments to Part 201, which is substantially the same as the revision 
°aUier. proposed, but with certain technical and editorial changes. 
r I l
° revised Regulation will become effective April 19, 1973. 
The 
Procedure provided by § 553(d) of Title 5, United States Code, with 
A s p e c t to deferment; of effective date has not been followed because 
the amendments relieve restrictions and such deferment would serve 
n
° useful purpose and might impair the effective accomplishment of 
& U o
- of the purposes of the amendments. 
As indicated in the Notice of Proposed Rule Making, the 
r
3
ncipal purposes of this revision of the Board's Regulation A are 
^ 
to improve.the ability of member banks to meet strong seasonal 
credit-
^ 
needs of their communities; (2) to eliminate certain irestric-
t l 
1 1 R
 
respect to the eligibility of paper as collateral for 

1109 
-2-
Federal Reserve credit; and (3) to condense and simplify technical 
provisions of the Regulation. 
Short-term Federal Reserve credit 
will continue to be provided in accordance with present rules. 
No 
change in the stance of monetary policy, in either the short or the 
long run, is intended or expected to result from the revision of 
Regulation A . 
To implement its proposal, the Board has amended Tart 201, 
effective April 19, 1973, by changing the heading to read "Extensions 
of Credit by Federal Reserve Banks" and by changing §§ 201.0 through 
201.6 t:o read ns set forth below. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 3, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
PART 201--EXTENSIONS OF CREDIT BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Sec. 
201.1 Authority and scope. 
201.2 
General principles. 
201.3 
Advances to member banks. 
201.4 
Disccunts for member banks. 
201.5 
General requirements. 
201.6 
Federal Intermediate Credit banks. 
201.7 
Emergency credit for others. 

±110 
-3-
Authority: 
The provisions of this Part 201 issued under 12 U.S.C. 
64, 240, 301,-330, 343-347, 347b, 347c, 348, 349, 351, 352, 351, 371, 
372, 373, 374. 
S 201,1--Authority and Scope. 
This Part is issued under section 13 and other provisions of 
the Federal Reserve Act and relates to extensions of credit by Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
§ 201.2--General Principles. 
(
a
) Accommodation of credit_necds 0 f individual banks. 
Ex-
tending credit to member banks to accommodate commerce, industry, and 
agriculture is a principal function of Reserve Banks. While open mar-
ket operations and changes in member bank reserve requirements arc 
important means of affecting the overall supply of bank reserves, the 
lending function of the Reserve Banks is an effective method of sup-
Plying reserves to meet the particular needs of individual member 
banks. 
(b) Effect on overall monetary and credit conditions. 
The 
landing functions of the Federal Reserve System are conducted with 
due regard to the basic objectives of the Employment Act of 3.946 and 
the maintenance of a sound and orderly financial system. These basic 
objectives are promoted by influencing the overall volume and cost 
credit through actions affecting the volume and cost of reserves 
t o
 member banks. Borrowing by individual member banks, at a rate 

-9-
1111 
of interest adjusted from time to time in accordance with general 
economic and money market conditions, has a direct impact on the 
reserve positions of the borrowing banks and thus on their ability 
to meet the needs of their customers. However, the effects of such 
borrowing do not remain localized but have an important bearing on 
overall monetary and credit conditions. 
(c) Short-tern adjustment credit. Federal Reserve credit 
l s
 available on a short-term basis to a member bank, under such rules 
a s 
m
a y be prescribed, t;o such extent as may be appropriate to assist 
8 u
c h bank in meeting temporary requirements for funds or to cushion 
more persistent outflows of funds pending an orderly adjustment of 
the bank's assets and liabilities, 
(d) Seasonal credit. Federal Reserve credit is available 
longer periods to assist a member bank that lacks reasonably 
r e
liable access to national money markets in meeting seasonal needs 
for funds arising from a combination of expected patterns of move-
n
'
c
nt in its deposits and loans. 
Such credit will ordinarily be 
Waited to the -amount by which the member bank's seasonal needs 
5 per cent of its average total deposits in the preceding 
C a
lendar year and will be available if (1) the member bank has 
arranged in advance for such credit for the full period, as far 
a G
 Possible, for which the credit is expected to be required, and 
the Reserve Bank is satisfied that the member bank's qualifying 
for funds is seasonal and will persist for at least eight 

consecutive weeks. 
In making such arrangements for seasonal credit, 
a Reserve Bank may agree to extend such credit for a period of up to 
90 days, 
subject to compliance with applicable requirements of law 
at the time such credit is extended. However, in the event that a 
member bank's seasonal needs should persist: beyond such period, the 
Reserve Bank will normally be prepared to entertain a request by 
the member bank for further credit extensions under the seasonal 
cre.di t arrangement. 
(e) Emergenc_v_credit for member banks. Federal Reserve 
credit is available to assist member banks in unusual or emergency 
circumstances such as may result from national, regional, or local 
difficulties or from exceptional circumstances involving only a 
particular member bank. 
(i) Emergency credit for_others. Federal Reserve credit 
is available to individuals, partnerships, and corporations that are 
not member banks in emergency circumstances in accordance with 
J 201,7 of this Part if, in the judgment of the Reserve Bank involved, 
credit is not practicably available from other sources and failure 
to obtain -such credit would adversely affect the economy. 
(g) Credit for c;anjtal purposes. Federal Reserve credit 
is not a substitute for capital and ordinarily is not available for 
extended periods, 
T T A S provided in the law and in this Part, the maturity of advances 
to member banks is limited to 90 days, except as provided in § 201.^(b; 
this Part. 

• 1113 
-6-
(h) Compliance, with law and regulation. All credit extended 
pursuant to this Part must comply with applicable requirements of law 
, 
and of this Part. Among other things, the law requires each Reserve 
Bank (1) to keep itself informed of the general character and amount 
of the loans and investments of its member banks with a view to 
ascertaining whether undue use is being made of bank credit for the 
speculative carrying of or trading in securities, real estate, or 
commodities or for any other purpose inconsistent with the maintenance 
of sound credit conditions and (2) to give consideration to such in-
formation in determining whether to extend credit. 
§ 201.3--Advances to 
(a) Advances 
Reserve 
Banlcs may make advances to member banks for not more than 90 days if 
secured by obligations or other paper eligible under the Federal 
KG serve Act for discount or purchase by Reserve Banks. 
0 0 Advances on otAieri security* 
A Reserve Bank may make 
advances to a member bank for not more than four months if secured 
to the satisfaction of the Reserve Bank, whether or not secured in 
conformity with § 201.3(a), but the rate on such advances shall be 
at least one-half of one per cent per annum higher than the rate 
applicable to advances made under 5 201.3(a). 

1114 
-2-
5 201.4--Discounts for Member Banks. 
If a.Reserve Bank should conclude that a member bank would 
he better accommodated by the discount of paper than by an advance 
0 n
 the security thereof, it may discount for such member bank any 
paper endorsed by the member bank and meeting the following require-
ments : 
(a) Commercial or agricultural paper, 
A note, draft, or 
kill of exchange issued or drawn or the proceeds of which have been 
o r
 
to be used (!) in producing, purchasing, carrying, or market-
i n
8 goods in the process of production, manufacture, or distribution, 
(•0 for the purchase of services, (3) in meeting current operating 
expenses of a commercial, agricultural, or industrial business, or 
<*> 
the purpose of carrying or trading in direct obligations of 
the United States; provided that (i) such paper lias a period remain-
i n
S to maturity of not more than 90 days, except that agricultural 
P°per (including paper of cooperative marketing associations) may 
have a period remaining to maturity of not more than nine months 
«ad ( M ) th? proceeds of such paper have not been and arc not to 
e
 tiso.d merely for the purpose of investment, speculation, or dealing 
stocks, bonds, or other such securities, except direct obligations 
o f
 the United States. 
(k) Bankers' acceptances. A banker's acceptance (1) arising 
of an importation or exportation or domestic shipment of goods 
0 l : t l l
e storage of readily marketable staples or (2) drawn by a bank 

in a foreign country or dependency or insular possession of the United 
States for the purpose of furnishing dollar exchange; provided that 
such acceptance complies with applicable requirements of section 13 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
(o) Construction paper. A note representing a loan made 
to finance construction of a residential or farm building, whether 
or not secured by a lien upon real estate, which matures not more 
than nine months from the date the loan was made and has a period 
remaining to maturity of not more than 90 days, if accompanied by 
a
n agreement requiring some person acceptable to the Reserve Bank 
to advance the full amount of the loan upon completion of such 
construction. 
§ 201.5--General Rcquirenents. 
(a) Information. A Reserve Bank shall require such 
information as it deems necessary to insure that paper tendered 
collateral or for discount is acceptable and meets any pertinent 
eligibility requirements and that the crcdit granted is used con-
sistently with this Part. 
(b) Amount of collateral. A Reserve Bank shall require 
only such amount of collateral as it deems necessary or advisable. 
- (c) Indirect credit for nOnmerr.bor banks. 
Except with 
the permission of the Board of Governors, no member bank shall act 
a s
 the medium or agent of a nonmember bank (other than a Federal 
intermediate Credit bank) in receiving credit from a Reserve Bank 

1116 
-9-
and, in the absence of such permission, a member bank applying for 
credit shall be deemed to represent and guarantee that it is not so 
acting, 
(d) Limitation as to one obligor. 
Except as to credit 
granted under § 201.3(b), a member bank applying for credit shall 
ke deemed to certify or guarantee that as long as the credit is 
outstanding no obligor on paper tendered as collateral or for dis-
count will be indebted to it in an amount exceeding the limitations 
in section 5200 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. § C4), which for 
this purpose shall be deemed to apply to State member as well as 
national banks, 
5 201.6--Federal' Intermediate Credit Banks. 
A Reserve Bank may discount for any Federal Intermediate 
Credit bank (1) agricultural paper, or (2) notes payable to and 
bearing the endorsement, of such Federal Intermediate Credit bank 
covering loans or advances made under subsections (a) and (b) of 
$ 2.3 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. § 2074) which are 
secured by paper eligible for discount by Reserve Banks. Any paper 
discounted shall not have a period remaining to maturity of more 
^ m n nine- months or bear the. endorsement of a nonmember State bank, 
5 
2
0
1
.
7
-
. 
In emergency circumstances a Reserve Bank may extend credit 
periods of not more than .90 days to individuals, partnerships, 
a
nd corporations (other than member banks) on the security of direct 

1117 
- 1 0 -
obligations of the United States or any obligations which are direct 
obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest b y , 
any agency of the United States, at such rate in excess of the rate 
in effect at the Reserve Bank for advances under § 201.3(a) as its 
board of directors may establish subject to review and determination 
of the Board of Governors, 

1 8 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
4/3/73 
S-2230 
A D D R E S S 
D F F I C I A U 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1973 
The Board has adopted the proposed revisions to Regulation A 
as announced on November 21, 1972, with certain improvements in wording 
as suggested by letter to you on February 27. The revised Regulation 
is being made effective on April 19. You need not wait until that date 
to prepare to assist member banks with significant seasonal credit needs 
during the spring period. 
During the comment period several Reserve Banks indicated that 
it would be desirable to have additional guidance concerning the restric-
tion in the seasonal borrowing privilege with respect to access to the 
national money markets. 
For this purpose, and for additional guidance 
in the application of the several conditions of the new privilege, the 
Board has approved the enclosed general guidelines. 
The guidelines were developed at a meeting of the Reserve Bank 
lending officers on March 12-13, 1973, with the understanding that changes 
might be necessary from time to time as experience is gained under the new 
borrowing privilege. 
It is likely that many banks do not yet understand the rules 
clearly enough to determine their eligibility and to calculate the amount 
of the loan they might apply for. At their recent meeting, therefore, the 
Reserve Bank lending officers also agreed that a letter to member banks 
containing supplementary instructions might be helpful. Draft instruc-
tions to be incorporated in the letter are enclosed. 
In addition, the Board is of the belief that any member bank 
which is likely to qualify for seasonal credit should be so advised 
promptly. 
A draft of a letter which may be used as a guide in advising 
such banks is enclosed. 
(For qualifying banks this letter's language 
may be added to the longer letter.) 
However, you may find it more 

-2-
desirable to contact some or all of the banks by telephone or through 
visits, particularly those banks with seasonal needs that are now 
beginning. 
The Board appreciates very much the assistance of the Reserve 
Bank lending officers in preparing the revised Regulation A for promul-
gation. 
Very truly yours, 
Enclosures 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND THE VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

S-2230 -a 
1120 
GENERAL GUIDELINES GOVERNING RESERVE BANK ADMINISTRATION 
OF THE SEASONAL BORROWING P R I V I L E G E ^ 
Revised Regulation A, effective April 19, 1973, provides 
for a seasonal borrowing privilege to member banks with well-defined 
seasonal requirements for loanable funds. 
Such Reserve Bank credit 
will enable a bank to increase its usefulness to the community 
it serves. 
The general conditions under which such loans may 
be made are the following: 
(1) The member bank lacks reasonably reliable access 
to national money markets. 
(2) The seasonal need for funds arises from a 
combination of expected patterns of movement 
in deposits and loans. 
(3) The Reserve Bank is satisfied that the need for 
funds is seasonal. 
(4) The qualifying seasonal need persists for at 
least 8 consecutive weeks. 
(5) The member bank ordinarily provides for the 
part of its seasonal needs which equals 5 per cent 
of average deposits in the preceding year. 
(6) The member bank arranges in advance for seasonal 
credit for the full period, as far as possible, 
for which credit is expected to be required. 
1/ Adopted by che Board of Governors on April 3, 1973. 

-2-
1121 
It will be observed that all of these conditions must be 
met before extending seasonal credit to a member bank. 
The following 
guidelines are for the purpose of assisting in the uniform application 
of these conditions. 
Reasonably reliable access 
to national money markets 
This condition is intended to restrict the seasonal borrowing 
privilege to member banks which enjoy only limited or indirect access 
to market sources of funds and are therefore more likely to require 
Reserve Bank credit to meet the needs of their communities. 
Such banks, largely because of size, are at a relative disadvantage in 
obtaining intermediate-terra credit from other sources. 
(a) Banks with average deposits in 1972 of less than 
$100 million are presumed, because of size, not 
to have the ability to establish reasonably reliable 
access to money markets. 
(b) In the case of banks with deposits of over $100 
million, consideration should be given to the 
degree of sophistication such banks employ in 
managing their liabilities, and the degree to 
which other sources of funds are available to assist 
the banks in meeting their seasonal needs. 
Hie 
following factors arc relevant in this consideration: 

1 9'> 
-3-
(1) The practice or ability to issue large 
CD's at reasonable rates with reasonable 
ease; 
(2) The practice or ability to purchase 
short-term funds directly in the national 
money market; 
(3) The existence of other arrangements to acquire 
funds readily in the money market, such as 
through a foreign branch, sale of loan 
participations, sale of securities under 
repurchase agreements and similar practices. 
(c) It would be most unusual for a bank with average deposits 
of more than $250 million in 1972 to lack the ability to 
meet its seasonal needs for funds through the money markets. 
Pattern of movement in 
deposits and loans 
In most cases the seasonal credit needs of an applicant 
bank will be demonstrated by the past record of changes from one 
month to another in deposits and loans. The Reserve Bank lending 
officers have computer listings of each member bank's average deposit 
and total loan figures by months over a five-year period (currently 
1968-72), with the difference between deposits and loans computed for 
seasonality under a standard statistical procedure (Census Method II, 
Variant X-ll). 
These listings, appropriately adjusted as indicated 

-4-
below and updated and improved each year, offer a uniform and helpful 
means of identifying the approximate size and duration of a bank's 
seasonal credit needs. 
(a) The member bank will be expected to describe, on the 
basis of such factors as its past operations and 
knowledge of its trade area, the likely seasonal 
pattern of movement in deposits and loans during 
the period of need in the current year. 
Discussions 
with the member bank, together with details derived 
from the computer listing and other sources of 
information, should provide a sound basis for 
evaluating the bank's estimated need. 
(b) When appropriate, the record available to the Reserve 
Bank lending officer should be adjusted to take account 
of the effect of activity in such areas as: 
(1) Federal 
funds transactions, bankers acceptances, purchased com-
mercial paper, and loans to financial brokers and dealers 
except where a continuing customer relationship exists; 
(2) other purchased paper such as loans purchased from 
sources outside the bank's trade area; aud (3) tax warrants 
or other evidence of seasonal loans to state and local 
governments which are classified as securities rather than • 
loans for condition reporting purposes. 
(c) In the case of new banks or banks which have not 
been in operation long enough to establish a proven 

11<J4 
-5-
o 
record of seasonality, the Reserve Bank lending 
officer may extend adjustment credit pending the 
realization of expected qualifying patterns. 
Reserve Bank satisfaction 
__as_ to seasonal need 
The seasonal borrowing privilege is not intended to 
provide seasonal credit in situations where the principal variation 
In a bank's net fund availability consists of a relatively short, 
pronounced influx of deposits. A bank should not be granted 
seasonal credit unless the Reserve Bank is satisfied that the 
bank has an actual seasonal need for funds. 
Seasonal need must persist 
for 8 consecutive weeks 
Til is condition is intended to rule out accommodation for 
relatively minimal seasonal demands, despite frequency of occurrence. 
Adjustment credit may be made available, however, subject to the 
regular rules of discount window administration, in the event a 
Reserve Bank finds it appropriate to accommodate a bank that fails 
to meet this minimum test. 
Amount of. Reserve 
_Bank credit 
The amount of Reserve Bank credit should ordinarily be 
limited to that part oC a member bank's seasonal needs which exceeds 
5 per cent of average deposits in the preceding calendar year. 

3L 
-6-
Advance arrangements 
for credit 
An applying member bank should explain to the Reserve Bank 
lending officer the nature of its seasonal need, what amount of credit 
will be required to meet the need, and the expected duration of the 
need. 
Such information needs to be obtained from a bank expecting 
to borrow on a seasonal basis, not only for the lending officer's 
information in scheduling and maintaining internal review over the 
seasonal borrowing, but also to enable the Open Market desk to know, 
in advance if possible, the approximate volume and timing of seasonal 
injections of reserves which are expected to occur at the discount 
window. This knowledge is needed to minimize the degree of unexpected 
fluctuation in borrowing which might make the achievement of monetary 
management objectives more difficult. 
Prearrangement is not intended 
to prevent a reconsideration of a seasonal credit accommodation either 
as to amount or duration, since many factors of an unpredictable 
nature can accentuate or diminish the seasonal outflows and, thus, 
the ncc d for Reserve Bank credit. 
(a) Member banks should be encouraged to apply several 
weeks in advance of the expected seasonal needs and 
arrange for credit for the full period for which 
it is expected to be required. 
(b) The member bank should have leeway to amend its 
request, in case of significantly changed 

-7-
.*' A O / * 
1 1 M > 
circumstances (excluding cyclical change in market 
conditions or in monetary policy). 
(c) Although changes materially enlarging or reducing the 
seasonal need could give rise to a reopening of a 
seasonal credit arrangement, day-to-day or even 
week-to-week shifts in fund availability should 
not be cause for repayment, for additional credit, or 
for reopening of the prearranged credit terms. 
On 
the other hand, if a bank wishes to pay off some 
part of the loan because of temporary excesses it 
may do so. 
(d) The Reserve Bank lending officer should maintain 
continuing review 
over the performance of the 
borrowing bank and reopen discussion at any point 
in c a s e of flagrant abuse of the credit. 
Net sales 
of Federal fnnds in small amounts will not be 
regarded as inappropriate as long as the sales 
represent temporary measures by the bank to avoid 
excess reserves. 

S-2230-b 
1127 
DRAFT OF INSTRUCTIONS CONCERNING THE 
SEASONAL BORROWING PRIVILEGE, TO BE INCORPORATED 
IN EACH RESERVE BANK'S LETTER TO MEMBER BANKS 
REGARDING THE AMENDED REGULATION A 
The seasonal borrowing privilege, which is discussed below, 
is available to those banks that enjoy only limited or indirect access 
to national money markets and which have definable and relatively 
substantial seasonal pressures. 
The regulation bases the calculation of seasonal credit on 
the recent annual fluctuations in a bank's deposits and loans. 
A 
seasonal dip in available funds (deposits minus loans) must exceed 
5 per cent of the previous year's average deposits for at least 8 weeks 
before a bank might qualify for seasonal credit. 
In a typical case, for example, a bank's available funds may 
shrink substantially during the same two or more consecutive months 
each year because of a run-down in deposits and simultaneous seasonal 
credit needs arising from preparation for a tourist season. 
Federal 
Reserve credit will be related to the amount and duration of this 
pattern (deriving a "net fund availability" by subtracting loans from 
deposits) subject, of course, to the member bank's taking care of that 
pait of the "deficit" which equals 5 per cent of deposits in the preced-
ing year. 
To assist member banks in requesting seasonal credit, we have 
reviewed our file of deposit and loan data for the member bank for the 
most recent 5 years to determine the approximate size and duration of 
its seasonal pattern. Our loan officcr will discuss the nature of 

-2-
the seasonal need, any foreseeable, changes in that need, and other 
matters that will help hiin to administer the credit once it is 
arranged. 
In some instances our loan officer will need to obtain 
additional data from a member bank, because our record of a bank's 
loans and deposits will not always provide an accurate indication of 
a seasonal need. For instance, a bank may increase its holdings of 
money market instruments—such as Federal funds sold, commercial paper, 
and purchased loan participations—when it has excess funds available. 
As local seasonal needs for credit develop, these holdings are run off. 
Since these asset holdings would be included in the reported figures 
for the bank's total loans, they would tend to obscure -- and probably 
reduce 
the evidence of seasonal variations which actually exist, 
unless separately identified. 
Similarly, a bank may make seasonal 
loans to local municipalities that are classified as securities rather 
than loans for condition reporting purposes; another may sell seasonal 
loans or participations therein to correspondents. 
Adjustments for 
these and similar factors may be necessary in calculating the seasonal 
need. 

S-2230-c 
DRAFT LETTER TO MEMBER BANKS WHICH APPEAR 
TO QUALIFY FOR SEASONAL CREDIT-V 
Dear Sir: 
As you will recall from our earlier announcement, the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approved, 
effective April 19, 1973, a new seasonal borrowing privilege for 
member banks, designed to assist them in meeting the needs of 
their communities. 
Our records indicate that your bank may 
qualify for such credit. 
We wish to make this borrowing privilege as useful as 
possible to our member banks, and would welcome the opportunity 
to discuss this program with you. 
For further information, we 
suggest that you contact our loan officer, Mr. 
at your convenience. 
Very truly yours, 
.1/ 
In lieu of T e t t e r , qualifying member banks may be. contacted 
by telephone or by visit. 

OF CO VV». 
R E S • 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1130 
Item No. 10 
4/3/73 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D C N 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 4, 1973 
Mr. James D . Hyde, Jr. 
Legislative Reference Division 
Off ice of Management and Budget 
Washington, D.C. 
20403 
Dear Mr. Hyde: 
This letter responds to your memorandum of March 13, 
requesting the views of the Board of Governors on the draft bill 
entitled, "Trade Reform Act of 1973." 
The Board supports the bill as a whole, but would 
recommend consideration of certain modifications outlined below. 
Title II. Relief from fair competition. As the bill now 
stands, Chapter 1 of this Title, dealing with import relief, provides 
that the President may grant relief from import competition in the 
fo rm of duties, or quotas, or other reductions in imports, when 
relief is requested by the parties affected. 
Consideration should 
he given to providing the President with authority to utilize 
adjustment assistance as an alternative to or in conjunction with 
direct actions affecting imports. 
This would provide more flexibility 
in dealing with the problems of import competition. 
Title IV. 
International Economic Policy Management. 
The 
authorization for Presidential action to impose an import surcharge 
°r quotas on imports to deal with a serious U.S. balance of payments 
deficit or surplus, or to cooperate in correcting serious imbalances 
elsewhere, is predicated on a specific definition of balance-of-
Payments deficit or surplus (Section 401 (b)). The definition involves 
a stated time period of four consecutive quarters of deficit (or 
surplus), or a large change in reserves, or an actual or prospective 
change in the exchange value of the dollar. A determination of 
whether a serious and persistent balance of payments problem exists 
requires a careful analysis of many economic facts and relationships. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
M r . James D . Hyde, Jr. 
- 2 -
l-
We do not see a need to circumscribe The President's authority by 
providing a limiting definition, and would therefore recommend 
deletion of subsection (b) of Section 401. 
However, the authorization 
in Section 401 to impose a temporary surcharge or quota should 
probably include some time limitation. 
May I add that the Board appreciates this opportunity to 
comment on the draft of this bill. 
Sincerely yours, 
/? 
f 
Tynan Smith 
'Secretary of the Board 
\ 

Ul RES^.-
^ 1 '»') 
B O A R D 
OF G n V E R N • R S 
Item No. 11 
4/3/73 
OfCOv":-. 
or THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R t S S 
D t f I C I A L 
n Q H W t S P D N D C N C t 
T O 
T H C 
B O A R D 
April'5, 1973 
The Honorable William E. Simon 
Deputy Secretary 
Department of the Treasury 
Washington, D . C. 
2.0220 
Dear M r . Simon: 
The Board has considered the implications of the seven 
legislative recommendations set forth in the Treasury memorandum 
dated March 19, 1973. This letter conveys the present thinking of the 
Board on those recommendations and related questions. 
Before presenting the Board's positions on each of the issues 
raised in the Treasury's memorandum, some general principles that the 
Board considers of overriding importance should be emphasized. 
First, the Board continues to believe that universal reserve 
requirements for both demand deposits and NOV? type accounts are necessary 
for purposes of both effective monetary policy and competitive, equity. 
Presently, the higher reserve requirements imposed on Federal Reserve 
member banks, as compared to those imposed by the states on non-member 
banks, discriminate against member banks competitively and are resulting 
in withdrawals from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Should the 
percentage of bank deposits subject to Federal Reserve reserve require-
ments continue to decline, the Federal Reserve's ability to control 
monetary aggregates will be eroded. 
The Board has long advocated equality of reserve requirements 
for member and non-member banks, and a succession of study groups has 
supported this principle. 
In 1961, the Commission on Money and Credit 
recommended that all insured commercial banks be required to join the 
Federal Reserve System. 
In 1963, the Committee on Financial Institutions 
recommended equal reserve requirements for demand deposits of member and 
non-member commercial banks. 
In 1971, the President's Commission on 
financial Structure and Regulation (Hunt Commission) proposed that all 
institutions offering demand deposits be required to belong to the 
federal Reserve System. 
This proposal was a crucial part of the Commission' 
Program for equalizing regulatory burdens among banks and thrift institution 

XloJ 
The Honorable William E . vSimon 
- 2 
While the Board does not believe it is necessary to require System 
membership Cor all of these institutions, it considers it essential that 
all institutions should be subject to the same reserve requirements 
on demand and NOW type accounts. 
• More generally, the Board believes that wide-scale structural 
reform should pursue the objectives of basic equality of regulatory 
treatment for all financial institutions with similar powers, not only 
with respect to reserve requirements, but with respect to interest 
rate ceilings and taxation as well. 
In addition, any changes that would serve to reduce materially 
the long-run supply of residential mortgage credit would be a matter of 
great concern to the Board and to the Congress as well. 
Finally, any program aimed at restructuring the system of 
deposit intermediation must be carefully designed to preserve and enhance 
tlie soundness of banks and thrift institutions. 
It is against the background of these principles that the 
following observations on the seven recommendations are offered. 
1 • Elim.i nati on_of Savings and Time Deposit Interest Ceilings 
_(i'.egulation Q , etc.) 
The Board supports the general goal of eventually eliminating 
interest rate ceilings on time and savings deposits, but only as the 
Portfolios of thrift institutions have become sufficiently adjusted 
(see Issue 2) to permit them to compete effectively for funds even 
during periods of credit restraint. 
In addition, some discretion in 
the timing of the removal of interest ceilings is desirable, so as to 
minimize disruptive shifts of funds among institutions. 
In the esse of 
KOV accounts, discussed under Issue 3, ceilings would be needed from 
tlie outset, albeit with the goal of gradual relaxation and eventual 
elimination. 
Therefore, the Board recommends a controlled phase-out 
celling rates, rather than immediate removal at some specified date, 
and also recommends that a specific terminal date should not be set for 
the authority to regulate deposit rate ceilings. 
Termination of authority 
could be left to the discretion of the Board, or alternatively, the 
authority might lapse if not used over a specified period of time. 
The Board also recommends'that the conditions for imposing 
interest ceilings should be made more general. The proposal in the 
treasury memo would not permit imposition of.ceilings to protect the 

i.Xo 4 
The Honorable William E. Simon 
- 3 -
mortgage market or to prevent the threat of insolvency of financial 
i n s t i t u t i o n s f o r example, savings and loan associations. 
A preferable 
condition for imposition of ceilings would be when uncontrolled rates 
threaten to undermine the safety and soundness of depository institutions, 
or conflict with other public interest considerations. 
The Board opposes the proposal for a five-agency committee 
to have discretionary authority to impose Regulation Q ceilings. 
Given 
the critical role these ceilings can play in the implementation of 
monetary policy, it would be desirable either to follow the Hunt 
Commission recommendations, which would place authority in the Board 
to set all deposit rate ceilings, or to leave the Board the powers it 
presently has to continue, suspend, modify or reirapose rate ceilings for 
member banks after consultation with the FDIC and the FHLBB. 
2. Expanded I,ondinr, and Investinen t Powers 
The Board generally supports the degree of asset diversification 
for mutual savings tanks and savings and loan institutions contemplated 
in this recenmendation. 
Broadening the lending powers of: thrift 
institutions even to this degree, however, would raise some question as 
to the impact; on the long-run supply of mortgage credit. 
This problem 
could be remedied by the proposed tax credit, but. it is impossible to 
evaluate the proposal until the specific rate a nd other conditions of 
the tax credit are spelled out (Issue 7). 
The Board believes that thrift institutions should be allowed 
to invest, to a limited degree, in mortgages that include some participation 
in income and/or capital gains. 
Such "equity participations" should be 
confined to mortgages on residential and related properties. 
The Board 
opposes the proposal to allow thrift institutions to invest directly 
in equity securities, although thrift institutions already making 
equity investments could justifiably be allowed to keep those investments. 
The Board endorses the proposals to liberalize, restrictions 
on real estate lending by commercial banks and to permit member banks to 
discount any class of assets at the Federal Reserve Ranks at rates to be 
determined by the Federal Reserve. 
In addition, the Board recommends 
that commercial banks be permitted to make equity participation loans 
on residential and related properties to the same extent as thrift 
institutions. 
With respect to commercial bank underwriting of "certain . 
revenue bonds," the Board would like to reserve comment until the details 
of this proposal are made more specific. 
" 
« 

xioj 
The Honorable William E . Simon 
- 4 -
3
 ' P^<^sits^n(^_Tj\ird^ParLv Transfer Systems and Reserves 
The Board believes that NOW account privileges should be 
extended to all depository institutions, but that the class of depositor 
eligible to hold such accounts should be confined to households. 
It als 
believes that NOW accounts offered by all institutions should be subject 
to identical interest ceilings, established by the Federal Reserve, FDIC 
and FHLBB in consultation with one another; that MOW account deposits 
of all institutions should be subject to identical reserve requirements 
set by the Federal Reserve; and that reserves should be held in cash or 
in deposits at the Federal Reserve. 
The Board agrees with the proposal concerning demand deposits 
except as it relates to reserve requirements. 
While the Board does not 
propose required membership in the Federal Reserve, demand deposits of 
all institutions should be subject to identical reserve requirements 
established by the Federal Reserve, with such reserves to be held in 
cash or in deposits at the Federal Reserve. 
The Board endorses broadened authority for it to set reserve 
requirements for demand deposits between sane minimal figure, such as 
5 per cent, and 22 per cent. 
The Board opposes the phasing out of 
reserve requirements on commercia1 bank savings and time deposits, since 
such required reserves arc a potentially useful weapon for combatting 
excessive, increases in commercial bank credit. 
The Board would endorse 
a broadened authority to set reserve requirements on time and savings 
deposits between some minimal amount, such as 1 or 2 per cent, and 10 
per cent. 
The. Board believes that reserve requirements for MOW accounts 
should be. set somewhere between the requirements for demand deposits and 
those for savings accounts. 
With respect to all of the foregoing categories of reserve 
requirements, the Board should have flexible authority to establish 
structures of differing reserve requirements within the indicated 
Percentage limits, as is provided by present law. 
'fiie Board is epposed LO permitting government securities to be 
used to fulfill part of: total reserve requirements, since this confuses 
the role Treasury securities play in providing bank liquidity and the 
function of reserve requirements in monetary management. 
Furthermore, 
this provision could open the door to efforts to finance Federal outlays 
by mandated bank purchases of government debt. 

The Honorable William E. Simon 
5 -
4
 • Ch£I tiers for Hi rift Institutions 
The Board endorses the proposals contained in the Treasury 
memorandum. 
5. Credit Unions 
The Board concurs, in general, with the proposals for credit 
unions set forth in the Treasury memorandum. 
6
 • The FHA Interest Ceiling Will be Removed 
The Board endorses this proposal, and assumes that it is 
meant to include interest rate ceilings on VA-guarantced mortgage loans. 
7. 
Taxes 
The Board endorses the proposal for equal tax treatment with 
respect to additions to loan loss reserves. 
The Board is not opposed to a tax credit on mortgage interest 
income. However, before it could endorse the proposal, the Board would 
need to know the details of the recommendation, including the size o , the 
tax credit, applicability to GNMA mortgage-backed bonds, applicability 
to non-residential mortgages, and its likely distribution among various 
classes of individual and institutional investors. 
The Board would like 
to point out that one limitation of such a tax credit is that it would 
have no value to investors with no tax liabilities, including pension 
funds. 
in the interest of brevity, this letter has not developed at 
length the reasoning and analysis that underlies its conclusions. 
If 
you would like to explore these matters further, we suggest tnat you 
or someone on your staff contact M r . Sam Chase of the Board s staff. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
