MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 6, 1973 

1150. 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Friday, April 6, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board 
and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of 
International Finance I/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
CoPies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
Placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
There followed comments on pertinent legislative matters, after 
which staff members who had attended only for the weekly review withdrew. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1151. 
4/6/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. Pursuant to the recommendation in a staff 
memorandum dated April 2, 1973, the Board unanimously approved a letter, 
with suggested changes, to the Office of Management and Budget comment-
ing on the Administration's proposed bill entitled the Equal Credit 
Opp 
ortunity Act of 1973, which seeks to prohibit discrimination in 
granting credit, making loans, or extending other financial assistance. 
In light of the recently released findings of the National Commission 
Consumer Finance, the Board's letter suggested that the proposed bill 
be expanded to prohibit discrimination based on marital status. A copy 
the letter sent to the Office of Management and Budget is attached as 
jtem No. 1. 
Pursuant to the recommendation in a memorandum from the Office 
the Secretary dated April 3, 1973, the Board unanimously approved a 
letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks concurring in a 
statement on the Federal Reserve Communications System prepared by the 
Subcommittee on Communications of the Committee on Communications and 
Payments, and reviewed by the members of the Conference of First Vice 
Presidents. Copies of the letter and statement are attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mellon National 
Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to acquire shares of First Boston 
(Europe) Limited, London, England. A copy of the letter sent to the 
applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 

JL 1 5 J * 
4/6/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Chicago 
International Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire shares 
°f First Chicago Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong. A copy of the letter 
sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Security 
Pacific Overseas Corp., Los Angeles, California, for suspension of the 
limitations on acceptances, liabilities of one borrower, and aggregate 
liabilities insofar as they apply to its subsidiary, Bank of Canton, 
Limited, Hong Kong. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
United Michigan Corporation. 
The Board unanimously approved 
(1) the application of United Michigan Corporation, Flint, Michigan, to 
form a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of the successor 
by 
consolidation with Genesee Merchants Bank & Trust Co., also of Flint; 
and (2) the application of Genesee County Bank, Flint, Michigan, to con-
s°lidate with Genesee Merchants Bank & Trust Co. The Board authorized 
issuance of orders reflecting those decisions. Copies are attached as 
l£gmsj5 and 7. 
In a related action, the Board also approved the application 
Genesee County Bank for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 

1153. 
4/6/73 
-4-
A. copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 8. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

luv^' 
^ As* 
•
l
i
p 
.^LkV.S^:-' 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON. 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
4/6/73 
A D D R E S S 
D T F I C I A L 
C O n N E S P O N O E d n t 
T D 
T H E 
O O A R D 
April 6, 1973 
Mr. William V. Skidmore 
Legislative Reference Division 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Re: Justice's draft: bill entitled the "Equal Credit 
Opportunity Act of 1973". 
Dear Mr. Skidmore: 
The Board of Governors supports the enactment of the draft 
bill entitled the "Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1973". The Board 
understands that the basic purpose of the bill is to expand the cover-
ago. of federal law against discriminatory lending practices to. reach 
(1) discrimination in fields of credit other than housing .credit (which 
is presently covered),•and (2) discrimination on the basis of sex, as 
Veil as race, color, religion or national origin. 
The Board believes that the bill could be improved in several 
respects. 
As regards coverage, consideration might be given to expan-
sion of the prohibition to reach discrimination on the basis of marital 
status, as well as sex. The National Commission on Consumer Finance 
cited discrimination on the basis of marital status as an existing 
abuse in the field of consumer credit. 
As regards enforcement, consideration should also be given 
to amending the bill to create a private cause of action that would 
enable borrowers to sue to remedy individual overt acts of discrimina-
tion by lenders. 

jl 1 Lu 
Mr. William V. Skidmore 
-2-
Finally, the Board recommends that clarifying language be 
added to the bill so that a distinction may be made between, prohibited 
discriminatory conduct and consideration of valid economic factors 
(supportable by statistical or other evidence) associated with an ap-
plicant's sex or marital status. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Ty na n Sini t h 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20^51 
Item No. 1 
4/6/73 
S-2232 
A D D R E S S 
D T F I C I A I . 
C O R K K S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 9, 1973 
This is to info; ^ you that the Beard of Governors concurs 
s t R t c M n € n t c n the "Federal Reserve Conmunications System," dated 
jj^'V ^* 1273, which was prepared by the Subcommittee on Connaunications, 
W o v . d -ny tl..0 cor.:nittee on Comunicat'tons and Payments, end reviewed 
th e *n timbers of the Coiiieroticc of. First Viae Presidents. 
This 3.etter, and the statement enclosed herewith, supersedes 
letter dated February 23, 12.06 (S-3 5S6, FRLS !:o. 270.01) f 
memorandum transmitted therewith. 
t e n u r e s 
Sincerely yours 
/ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Jl^.-t 
J°T?11{ 
OF ALT. FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AMD VICE PRESIDENTS 
C'*AHGE 0? BRANCHES. 

FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
April 1, 1973 
I, INTRODUCTION - Brief Description of System 
The Federal Reserve Communications System (FKC3) is a telegraph 
network connecting the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
1 1 F e d e r a l Reserve banks and branches, the Treasury Department (Washing-
ton and Chicago offices) and the Commodity Credit Corporation .Washington). 
Coirn.uuicat.ions byatem is operated at no pi ofit and Is employee! througlv-
out the Federal Reserve for communications pursuant to Federal Reserve 
functions. 
The nerve center of the Federal Reserve Communications System 
i s the computer communications switching center housed in the Communica-
tions and Records Center of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond located 
Culpepcu, Virginia. Conmunications equipment is installed at Federal 
Reserve offices and connected to the Communications Switching System at 
Culpepc:r via private communications circuits. The communications equip-
^r.t ct each office has been selected based on traffic volume;- and other 
r^Wtfements and includes tele-typewriter terminals, cotamunicationa computer 
P^ceseors, and other special communications terminals, interconnected 
appropriate circuits providing transmission capabilities commensurate 
tii !,na >. equxpneut. 
Equipment has been installed at the Switching Center whereby 
muli-iple-adcress messages may be distributed from single transmission by 
station. Massages are normally routed immediately to the 
fl'iclresj?ee; however, for stations closed or temporarily out of service, 
U s a g e s 
be held and subsequently released. Although all transmissions 
automatically through tin. Switching System, traffic flow may be 
served and, if necessary, controlled. 
Alarm signals at the Switching Center indicate trouble conditions 
^ the outlying stations and direct the Switching Center operator*1 
tention to the equipment involved so that corrective action may be taken. 
iX. 
C^'^^CTUAL _?>rj.ATiov?sin:_rs 
j. 
Acting on behalf of the Board of Governors and the 12 Reserve 
ar>ks, the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 1K*S leased communications 
°rvicor: and equipment from the Western Union Telegraph Company in 
with the provisions of Western Union Tariff F.C.C. No. 254, 
.^imjed among the equipment are all teletypewriter terminals and circuit 
*eUni.nn.tion equipment and the centrally shared communications switching 
^ipir.ent that are connected to the communications switch located at 
Virginia, All requests for moves, changes or additional equip-
delating to the Federal Reserve Communications System are handled 

1158 
-2-
through the staff of the Culpeper Switching Canter. Communications equip-
ment at Federal Reserve offices that is not included in the Federal Reserve 
Communications System is arranged for directly with the supplier by the 
office using the equipment. 
Ill. SUPERVISION OF FRCS 
The FRCS is administered and operated by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond. All official communications with respect to matters 
n o L elsewhere covered in this memorandum should b: directed to the 
officer in chargc of the Culpeper Communications Division of that bank. 
Under the general supervision of this officers the manager of the Switch-
3 Center is authorised and directed to maintain, with as 3ittie inter-
uPtion as possible, the continuous flow of data transmission. All 
^Oft-offtcial. communications regarding the use of the communications 
Should be directed to the operations manager of the Switching 
r. 
IV. EMERGENCY ^OUT-FIF^T 
. 
All circuit locations are equipped with str-ndby TV:X equipment 
jgjfcsletypewriter exchange service) to furnish telegraph coipraunication in 
t n°evsnt of circuit failure or other cwoj-gency. 
mien TrR equipment is 
messages are to be in standard formats as prescribed by the Sub-^ 
B^itteft < m Communications. The rental costs of the equipment at each 
aLiori- are absorbed by the location. 
V, jJSF OF FRCS 
•^Silf're 1 
r o 
The FRCS should be used for all telegrams between the Federal 
acrve banks and branches, except when the communications lines are 
^ ose'd or are inoperative for any reason. Standby Tt-K equipment should 
^'•dinarily be used when the FRCS is closed or is inoperative due to 
FpSqS°'ncy conditions. 
Coiranercial wires should be used when both the 
a Dd TVJX equipment arc inoperative. 
j 
t 
Messages should be prepared in the standard formats as defined 
f; a{-andard information releases published by the Subcomrd ttee on 
^ftnications. 
u.v( 
Long telegrnms should not be transmitted during peak hours 
v?i.'!S{\ 
is considerable urgency. Each administrative multi-paged 
tj-fl° 
be sent in a continuous transmission unless the number of 
1 u S c r 
ceeds two in which case subsequent pages will be transmitted in 

-3-
Ctoups of two or less. The addressee name, signature, and "to be con-
tinued" will be used in messages exceeding two pages. 
No page of a message should contain more than 25 lines of 
message text with no more than 00 characters per line. 
Application for use of the communications network must be filed 
with the Subcommittee on Communications for all recurring traffic. Mo 
aPpli cation is required for non-recurring traffict 
sr.rssh Cr *_c 
The Federal Reserve Telegraph Code is used in cdmini strative 
U s a g e s for brevity and to convey specially defined meanings. The cur-
used codes are listed in the Federal Reserve Telegraph Code Book 
is maintained and distributed by the Subcommittee on Communications. 
serve Test Uords 
A "test word" is a special word determined by a formula added 
0 cevtaju administrative type messages that contain text concerning the 
Payment of money r.nri in to validate the amount indicated in the message 
a n d other information contained in the message., 
3, 
The "Test Uord Book" w h i m does not carry an of 1 Ic.'.al title, 
a booklet composed of a formula used to compute a test, void number, and 
v°'r;L "ords equating to each number derived from that formula. Test code 
•;ords ore used only in administrative or text type messages. 
VI, ill'SSAG!-, HUliBKR CPATROL SYSTEM 
c 
Kvery message accepted for transmission in the Federal Reserve 
^muuications System has a message identification number and a message 
^•q-uomcc number automatically assigned to it. These numbers are used by 
^3^Parties handling the message for identification. With the combination 
tr 
- these numbers, usees are provided assurance of message acccptance, 
T
raccability, and retrieval of messages from the communications system, 
u- ^ssage control system is applicable to all types of message traffic 
owing through the Federal Reserve Communications System. 
VII. DETEIftilflATIOK AND DISTRIBUTION.OF EXPENSES 
Italiatlou .Cbjirxxes 
ot, 
Charges for the communications switch and related equipment and 
^nstallotion charges at the Switching Center are paid by the Federal 
Fr/i'^ ^ B a n k of Richmond. These costs are then distributed among the 12 
OiTfil Reserve banks on the basis of capital and surplus. 

• 1160 
i — 
'JLqtil-prafrnt, Wire Rental Monthly Expenses and One Time 
installation charges 
The monthly bill submitted by the Western Union Telegraph Company 
0 r teletype terminals and associated equipment at the Reserve banks and 
o r a n o . h o e 
" r ^ l 
P r ^ r r ^ n i - l •> 
V 
C ' T o d 1 f" 
i;ore user xor tine equipment: ana w u e iwiuj u i a ^ o 
1 locations. 
Payments for communications circuits are raade 
£ Governors to i;U Conesal Services Administration, reimbursed 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, and distributed among the System 
„ 
_.,.< 
j--—rr • , 
1 
bi 
at the terminal 
b y the Board of 
£ the Federal 
_ 
_ 
„ 
.... 
o C r s based on percentage of traffic volume. 
^ B ? ^ S w l t c h l n f . ; Center 
c 
The cost: of operating the communications switching system at 
^Ipepcr is paid by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Honthly costs 
distributed by Richmond among the Reserve banks, the Board of Governors, 
t
r c « ^ r y Department, and Commodity Credit Corporation on a percentage of 
UlU:i.c> volumes between the various terminal locations and the Switching 
Hot included in. these costs arc: 
Salaries of officers devoting time to official 
supervision of the Culpeper center. 
Service charges, i.e», charges for maintenance of 
personnel, purchasing, filing, old records, etc, 
Culpeper and costs of space„ light, heat, power, 
vjater and cleaning. 
'•^felbution of Terpensers Within Districts 
lnad 
_ 
The distribution of telegraphic costs at each location should be 
' 0 in accordance with prevailing instructions contained in the Board's 
,cc°unting Manual. 
VIII, REIMBURSABLE FISCAL AGENCY ARRANGEMENTS 
The per"word cost of leased wire services thus calculated should 
C C v
U R c d ^y the Federal Reserve banks and branches in billing the various 
ei'nrnent do oar tmonts and agencies for reimbursable fiscal agency messages 
t> en f" } 
v 
" 
^oiif 
thew over the leased wire and should be included 5 a the usual 
"'Uy or quarterly vouchers requesting reimbursement for fiscal agency 
3'Penses. 

1161 
.•;<> coV;.. 
• szf o^s 
\ 
; 0 ft";.' v ^ 
w X0: . . 
S i l ® 
B D A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 3 
4/6/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
o r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 6, 1973 
Mellon National Corporation 
P*;0. Box 15629 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
15244 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 20, 1973, the Board of 
Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Section 4(c) (13) 
o f the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and Section 225.4(f) 
o f Regulation Y, for Mellon National Corporation ("MNC"), Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, to purchase and hold 33 1/3 per cent of the shares of 
First Boston (Europe) Limited ("FBEL"), London, England, at a cost of 
aPproximately $2,625,000, provided such shares are acquired within one 
from the date of this letter. 
The consent to the acquisition of shares of FBEL is granted 
subject to the condition that FBEL shall confine its activities to inter-
actional or foreign banking and other international or foreign financial 
°Perations and that MNC shall maintain at its head office adequate finan-
t l al and operating information regarding FBEL'3 activities. 
It is the preliminary ruling of the Board that the restrictions 
o f Paragraphs 1 and *2 of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act would 
aPply to Loans by affiliated United States banks to FBEL and the above 
^°nsent is granted on che condition that, until a final ruling is made, 
credit extensions by Mellon Bank, N.A. to FBEL will conform to the re-
c r e m e n t s of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the invest-
w i n be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they 
Pply to Mellon Bank, N.A. and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

JLJLO /O 
l i f e 
iji#V 
RE^V 
B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N • R S 
OR 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
4/6/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 6, 1973 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
One First National Plaza 
Chicago} Illinois 
60670 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 6, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FCIFC") to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of First Chicago Hong Kong Limited 
("FCIIK"), Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately HK$2,000,000 (about 
$400,000), provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter0 
In this connection, approval is also granted 
for the purchase and holding of shares of FCIIK in excess of 10 per 
cent o£ your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FCHK by FCIFC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That FCIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FCHK if FCHK at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if FCHK 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in Hong Kong 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to FCIFC; 
(?.) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
FCIFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of FCHK as it may re-
quire from time to time; and 

1163 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share, acquisitions or dispositions by FCHK 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the. same manner as if FCHK were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act „ 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) 
of Regulation K„ 
You have requested consent for FCHK to engage in the busi-
ness of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board's consent 
to such activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining 
the prior consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares 
of FCHK should FCHK acquire stock of individual issuers costing in 
excess of $500,000 or representing 25 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of any company, except in the case of underwriting operations 
covered by firm commitments from subunderwriters or other purchasers. 
With respect to trading in securities in which Corporations are pro-
hibited from investing by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's consent is 
further conditioned on the fact that FCHK will acquire such shares 
only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size and turnover OL 
inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, and dispose of 
such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connrxtion, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they are 
to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of ac-
quisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
quested by the Board. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to The First National Bank of Chicago and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1164 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
4/6/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
April 6, 1973 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp. 
561 South Spring Street 
Los Angeles, California 
90013 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter of March 6, 1973, 
relating to the conditions set forth in the Board's letter of 
November 18, 1971, granting consent for your Corporation to 
acquire indirectly control of Bank of Canton, Limited, llong 
Kong. 
As requested in your letter, subject to continuing 
observation and review, the Board suspends, until further 
notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the third para-
graph of the Board's above-mentioned consent so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
The Board has noted that as of February 28, 1973, 
the foreign loans and investments of Security Pacific National 
Bank and its affiliates exceeded the guideline ceiling appli-
cable under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program. The foregoing 
suspension is granted with the understanding that those foreign 
loans and investments will be reduced promptly so as to eliminate 
any excess over the guideline ceiling. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1165 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/6/73 
V 
< 
UNITED MICHIGAN CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
United Michigan Corporation, Flint, Michigan, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
through acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares of the successor 
bV consolidation with Genesee Merchants Bank & Trust Co., Flint, Michigan 
("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares 
o f Bank. 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
organization Is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of shares of 
Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
an<* none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion i n l i g h t o f t h e factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8«2(c)). 
Applicant, a nonoperating company with no subsidiaries, was 
organized for the primary purpose of becoming a bank holding company with 
If 
Aspect to Bank ($406.0 million deposits). 
Bank, located in the city 
o f Flint, operates thirty branches within the 25 mile branching limit 
Permitted by Michigan law and is the second largest of three banks 
Seated in Flint. 
Since the purpose of the proposed transaction is 
T r Banking data are as of June 30, 1972. 

_ 1 1 6 G 
-2-
essentially a corporate reorganization to effect holding company owner-
ship of Bank, consummation of the proposal would not adversely affect 
existing or potential competition. Therefore, competitive considerations 
a r e consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant 
a r e dependent upon those of Bank. The financial and managerial resources 
o f Bank are regarded as generally satisfactory, and future prospects 
aPpear favorable. 
Banking factors are consistent with approval of the 
aPplication. 
Although consummation of the transaction would have no 
immediate effect on area banking needs, considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the community are consistent with approval of 
the- application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the application should 
b e approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
ttle reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
tllis Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
^ i s Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
° r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
f 
voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
*iTnmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
teheli and Bucher. 

1167 
Item No. 7 
4/6/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
GENESEE COUNTY BANK 
Order Approving Application for Consolidation of Banks 
Genesee County Bank, Flint, Michigan, a proposed State member 
bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied for the Board's approval 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) of the consolidation 
o f that bank with Genesee Merchants Bank & Trust Co., Flint, Michigan, 
under the name of Genesee Merchants Bank & Trust Co. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed transaction, 
form approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has 
guested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, the 
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion. xhg Board has considered the application in light of the factors 
S e t forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
it 
e reasons summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating to the 
aPPUcation of United Michigan Corporation for formation of a bank 
hiding company through acquisition of the successor by consolidation 
W i th Genesee Merchants Bank & Trust Co., provided that said transaction 
S h a ll not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
th 
e date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 

_ 1168 
- 2 -
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
o r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
B° t i nS for this action: 
Ummer, and Sheehan. 
ltchell and Bucher. 
Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
Absent ana not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 

lift) 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R 5 
I t e m N o- 
8 
• r THE 
4/6/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
^ t : . - . . 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r n c l A L 
U D R R E S f D N i l C N C E 
'
'
f
o
^
^
-
^
i
^
^
W
-
T
U 
T H E 
H O A R D 
April 6, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Genesee County Bank 
Flint, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Genesee County Bank, Flint, Michigan, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that Genesee County Bank will not conduct a banking business with 
the public prior to its consolidation with Genesee Merchants Bank o. 
Trust Co., Flint, Michigan. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions o;: membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 2.08.7 
thereof.^ A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be 
determined whether such change affects 111 any way the bank's status 
as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 

Genesee County Bank 
~ 
2 
-
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained 
in this letter should be. evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
board of directors after the bank has appropriate State authoriza-
tion to commence business. 
A certified copy of such resolution 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
The time within which admission t:o membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the 
bank applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 
