MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 22 ji 1973 

z
w 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 22, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Par tee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Other supporting staff 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
Placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then commented on developments with respect to proposed 
legislation of special interest to the System. 
Discount window. During a discussion of the current use of the 
discount window a question was raised whether there had been a shift in 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

O 
* 
to 
f^t tj> L 
1/22/73 
- 2 -
practices with respect to ease of access by banks to the window. 
It was 
brought out that, while certain rules were specified in Regulation A, 
Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve Banks, operational practices 
within those rules were largely a matter of informal understandings, prob-
ably with some lack of uniformity among Federal Reserve Districts. 
Chairman Burns requested that the staff develop proposals for uniform 
guidelines, to be submitted for the Board's consideration in the near future. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
