MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 23, 1973 

4609 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, November 23, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 11:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
NOW accounts. At its meeting on November 19, 1973, the Board 
agreed upon a position to be taken at meetings of the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation concerning the proposed regu-
lation of accounts offering negotiable orders of withdrawal (NOW accounts). 
At today's meeting, Governor Mitchell reported on the latest 
discussions with representatives of the other agencies on the Committee, 
after which the Board gave further consideration to the maximum interest 
rates to be established on NOW accounts, the type of clearing services 
t o be provided, and possible limitations to be imposed on the activity 
o f these accounts. 

4U10 
11/23/73 
-2-
It was understoocl that the Board's position as adopted at its 
meeting on November 19, 19 73, and as substantially reaffirmed today, 
would be presented at a meeting of the Coordinating Committee early 
next week. 
Transfer of funds. Governor Holland reported briefly on an 
arrangement between the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the 
Department of the Treasury concerning a transfer of funds from a foreign 
source. 
Congressional testimony. Governor Mitchell was scheduled to 
appear on November 26, 19 73, before the Subcommittee on Bank Supervision 
and Insurance of the House Committee on Banking and Currency concerning 
the payments mechanism. A draft statement had been distributed. Discussion 
included a number of suggestions regarding approach and emphasis. At 
the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that the statement 
would be revised in the light of comments made and would be presented in 
a final form satisfactory to Governor Mitchell. A copy of the statement 
a s Presented before the Subcommittee has been placed in the Board's files. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting during the course of 
the foregoing discussion. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
