MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 16, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
Squired to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 3 Amendments to Regulation D, Reserves 
of Member Banks, and Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits. 

) 
i 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 16, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
I 
| 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
I 
- 
I 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Scott of the Office of the Secretary 
) 
The staff presented a review of domestic and international 
developments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings 
I 
i 
o f the Federal Open Market Committee. 
Copies of the statistical 
materials prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, 
along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed legislative developments of interest 
|l 
[ 
t o the System, after which members of the staff who had attended only 
the economic review withdrew from the meeting. 

7/16/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, to acquire 
shares of a new merchant bank in London, England, to be named First 
International Bancshares Limited. A copy of the letter sent to the 
applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Orbanco, Inc., 
Portland, Oregon, to acquire (through its wholly-owned subsidiary, 
Columbia Mortgage Co., also in Portland) the insurance agency business 
°f Far West Securities Co., Spokane, Washington, and authorized issuance 
°f an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the application 
o f Atlantic Bancorporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to merge with Citizens 
bancshares of Florida, Inc., Hollywood, Florida, under the charter and 
title of Atlantic Bancorporation, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 3, 
along with the dissenting statement of Governor Brimmer. 
Pursuant to the recommendation in a memorandum from the Legal 
division dated July 13, 1973, the Board unanimously approved a letter 
t o the Office of Management and Budget in response to a request for the 
board's views on a draft bill prepared by the Civil Service Commission 
t o amend the Hatch Act, which presently governs the political activities 
o f employees in Government service. A copy of the letter is attached as 
jtemjjp. A. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 

z
m
? 
7/16/73 
-3-
Amendments to Regulations Q and D. 
In connection with recent 
actions by the Board on Regulations Q and D, the staff had been asked 
to prepare possible further amendments for consideration at today's 
meeting concerning the treatment of multiple maturity time deposits and 
a clarification of language on marginal reserve requirements. 
Pursuant 
to the request, a memorandum dated July 13, 1973, from the Division of 
Research and Statistics had been distributed. 
The amendment to the Supplement to Regulation Q would eliminate 
the distinction between single maturity and multiple maturity time 
deposits with respect to the maximum rates of interest payable by member 
banks on such deposits. This action would have the effect of removing 
mterest rate ceilings on multiple maturity time deposits of $100,000 or 
more, and on multiple maturity time deposits of 4 years or more in 
^nominations of $1,000 or more. 
The amendment to Regulation D would apply an 8 per cent marginal 
reserve requirement (the regular 5 per cent plus a supplemental 3 per 
cent) to multiple maturity time deposits of $100,000 or more in the 
same manner as applied to single maturity time deposits in such denom-
inations . 
The amendment to Regulation D would also clarify that marginal 
reserve requirements do not apply to time deposits of less then $100,000 
which interest rate ceilings have been removed. 

i " f ) 
fiA > Q O 
7/16/73 
-4-
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the amendments 
to Regulations D and Q. Copies of the amendments in the form in which 
they were published in the Federal Register are attached as Items 5 
the effective dates are as stated in the documents. 
The Board's attention then turned to the matters to be discussed 
a t a meeting of the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation 
to be attended by Governor Bucher on Thursday, July 19, 1973. Among 
the issues to be considered at that meeting was an interpretation of 
Regulation Q issued by the Board on July 12, 1973, concerning the appli-
cability of the new Regulation Q penalty provisions adopted by the Board 
on July 5 j 1973. 
After brief discussion, it was understood that a memorandum 
w°uld be prepared by the Legal Division describing the various issues 
t o be considered by the Coordinating Committee and the differences in 
Position taken with respect thereto by the Board, the Federal Deposit 
insurance Corporation, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and that 
Such memorandum would be reviewed by the Board in advance of the Coordi-
nating Committee meeting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2 6 ( i 9 
..«;<; oicoV;.. 
B O A R D 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
7/16/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C D H H E S P O N D C N C E 
TD THE BOARD 
July 16, 1973 
First International Bancshares, Inc. 
p- 0. Box 6031 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 12, 1973, the Board 
Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
ar*d S e c t i o n 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for First International Banc-
shares. Inc., Dallas, Texas, to purchase and hold all of the shares 
First International Bancshares Limited ("FIBL"), London, England, 
a t a cost of approximately £3,000,000 (about $20,000,000), provided 
S u ch shares are acquired within one year frcm die date of this letter, 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Sec-
tion 4(e)(13), FIBL shall confine its activities to international 
0 r foreign banking and other international or foreign financial 
derations. 
You have requested consent for FIBL to engage in the busi-
riGss of underwriting or dealing in securities. 
The Board's consent 
° such activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining 
the priar consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares 
FIBL should FIBL acquire stock of individual issuers costing in 
c^cess of $500,000 or representing 25 per cent or more of the voting 
'ares of any company, except in the case cf underwriting operations 
Covered by firm commitments from subundetwriters or other purchasers. 
, ]• tTa respect to trading in securities in which Corporations are pro-
hibited from investing by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of 
Gction 2.5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's consent is 
U:'"ther conditioned on the fact that FIBL will acquire such shares 
only 
as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size and turnover of in-
ventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, and dispose cf such 
^ares within a reasonable time. 
k 
In tiiis connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
- Reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. 
However, they 
to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
c '^iaitioa, on GUV Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
vested by the Board. 

2
6
7
0 
First International 
Bancshares, Inc. 
-2-
You have requested consent for FIBL to engage in the busi-
ness of providing consulting services outside the United States. 
The Board's consent Is granted subject to the condition that such 
services relating to the U.S. market will be confined to the initial 
entry of foreign companies into that market. 
It is the preliminary ruling of the Board that the restric-
tions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section 23(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act apply to loans by First National Bank in Dallas or other affili-
ated U.S. banks to FIBL and this consent is granted on the condition 
that, until a final ruling is made, credit extensions to FIBL by 
affiliated U.S. banks will conform to the requirements of paragraphs 1 
and 2 of Section 23(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to First National Bank in Dallas and its affiliates, 
^n this regard, it should be noted that under the Guidelines certain 
iimitati ons apply to the sharing of ceilings of affiliated banks in 
a holding company. Under Guideline section II-D-3-b, bank subsidiaries 
that had ceilings under Guidelines in force before November 11, 1971 
(with the minor exception noted in that section) may consolidate their 
Ceili,ngs; the bank subsidiaries that adopted ceilings after that date 
should not consolidate their ceilings. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
S ee attached letter of correction. 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 6, 1973 
^ifst International Bancshares, Inc, 
0. Box 6031 
° a U a s , Texas 
75222 
Gentle. 
emen: 
With reference to the Board's letter dated July 16, 1973, 
te8arding First International Bancshares Limited, London, England, 
p11 
final sentence, the referenced paragraph of the Foreign 
L r edi t Restraint Guidelines should be "II-D-3-d." 
Very truly yours , 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

2
6
7
2 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/16/73 
ORBANCO, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Far West Securities Co. 
Orbanco, Inc., Portland, Oregon, a bank holding company within 
^ 
meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the Board's 
aPProval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Elation Y, to acquire (through its wholly owned subsidiary, Columbia 
rtSage Co., Portland, Oregon) the insurance agency business of Far West 
Curities Co., Spokane, Washington (''Company"), and thereby to engage in 
act-ivities o f acting as an insurance agent or broker with respect to 
credit iir 
J-ife insurance, credit accident and health insurance and mortgage 
deinPtion insurance, all directly related to extensions of credit by Com-
pany. 
q 
, 
°uch activities have been determined by the Board to be closely re-
late<* to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Petg0 
8 to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has been 
duly 
k 1 
Polished (37 Federal Register 24390). The time for filing comments and 
view8 h 
n as expired, and the Board has considered all comments received in light 
of 
t h 
e Public interest factors set forth in section 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 
D s 
' ,C* 1843(c)). 
Applicant, a one bank holding company, controls The Oregon Bank, 
m d , 
Poslt 
m » Oregon, the third largest banking organization in Oregon with de-
"s 
$209.3 million, representing 4 per cent of total deposits in com-
^ C i a i . 
1/ 
banks in the State. 
(The two largest banking organizations in 
V 
A banking data are as of December 31, 1972. 

2 6 7 3 
- 2 -
0re8on together control approximately 78 per cent of all commercial bank 
^Posits.) Applicant controls seven nonbanking subsidiaries which engage, 
esPectlvely, in the following activities: capital goods financing, data 
^ °cessing services, mortgage banking, registered investment advisory services, 
bating a small business investment company, operating an industrial bank, 
folding title to bank premises. 
Applicant's acquisition of Company, which is engaged in mortgage 
bank:t 
in8 activities, was approved by the Board on April 26, 1973 (38 Federal 
&egist 
2/ 
e r 11136; May 4, 1973). 
Applicant proposes to acquire the insurance 
C y business formerly conducted by Company which consists of acting as agent 
ot br0k 
Ker with respect to credit life insurance, credit accident and health 
itisuran * and mortgage redemption insurance, all sold in connection with ex-
ns of credit by Company. Due to the limited nature and scope of the 
lce activities, it appears that Applicant's acquisition of the insurance 
C y business formerly conducted by Company would not have an adverse effect 
^ h e r 
< 
existing or potential competition in any relevant area. 
It is anticipated that the provision of credit-related insurance by 
ai*y wi 
will provide greater convenience for its customers. There is no 
n c e in the record indicating that consummation of the proposed transaction 
V°Ulci r esult in an undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, con-
n l c t 
Interests, unsound banking practices or other adverse effects. 
& ach^tS ori6lnal application, Applicant sought to acquire the mortgage bank-
o f C o m P
a n
y a s well as its insurance agency activities directly 
to the
 
t 0 t h o s e extensions of credit. However, in light of certain objections 
aPpllc
 insurance activities, Applicant requested that the Board split the 
°n the
atl"0n i n t o 
t w o separate parts; subsequently, the Board ordered a hearing 
i n s u r a n c e activities and approved the acquisition of Company's mortgage 
8 aetivities. Thereafter, Applicant amended its application limiting 
^thdr°p0secl insurance activities as described herein. The objections were 
ton!" , and the 
Hearing Officer dismissed the matter from the hearing docket 
» 1973 and returned it to the Board for further processing. 

2
6
7
1 
- 2 -
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the 
rec°rd, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) of the Act 
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved subject to the 
Editions set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's 
authority to require such modification or termination of the activities of a 
hiding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to 
a3aure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
re8ulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
The 
tt* 
ar-saction shall be consummated not later than three months after the effectiv 
j 
e o f this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°y the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective July 16, 1973. 
(Signed) 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[sEAL] 
She ^ o t i n 8 for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
atl> Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Mitchell. 

2
6
7
5 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/16/73 
ATLANTIC BANCQRPORATION 
Order Approving Merge* of Bank Holding Companies 
Atlantic Bancorporation, Jacksonville, Florida ("Atlantic"), 
a b*nk holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(5) of the Act 
U*S.C. 1842(a)(5)) to merge with Citizens Bancshares of Florida, 
ltlc*> Hollywood, Florida ("Citizens"), under the charter and title 
0 f Atlantic, 
Notice of receipt of the application, affording an opportunity 
r interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
acc°rdance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views 
"as expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
th 
e A ct (12 u.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Atlantic controls 23 banks with aggregate deposits of approx-
ately $856 million representing 4.3 per cent of deposits of commercial 
in Florida, and is the sixth largest banking organization and 
holding company in the S t a t e C i t i z e n s controls five banks with 
a l deposits of about $114 million representing 0.6 per cent of aggre-
t e deposits in the State, and is Florida's 23rd largest banking organiza-
tion and u 
bank holding company. Consummation of the proposed merger would 
in Atlantic's control of 4.9 per cent of total State deposits, 
V i a8 unchanged its ranking as a banking organization or bank holding 
ComPany i n t h e 
s t a t e ^ 
i ^ S T r ; — 
Coil*Pan 
a r e a s ° f D e c e m b e r 31» 1 9 7 2> a n d reflect bank holding 
l9?3 ^ formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through May 31, 

2
6
7
6 
- 2 -
All of Atlantic's present subsidiary banks (except for its 
listing West Palm Beach subsidiary) are located in the northern two-
t^lrds of Florida, and it is represented in several of the major 
bf*nking markets in that portion of the State. It is dominant in none. 
Citizens, on the other hand, is concentrated in southern Florida. 
p°ur of its subsidiaries are located In the Greater Miami banking 
market approximated by Dade County and the southern third of Broward 
County, where it is the eleventh largest banking organization holding 
aPProximately 2 per cent of deposits; its remaining subsidiary, a 
^^ly-established bank, is located in the nearby Fort Lauderdale 
atea. Since the closest subsidiary banks of the proponents are over 
^ Miles apart and the remaining subsidiaries are more than 125 miles 
aPart, consummation of the proposal will not eliminate any significant 
° U n t of existing competition. 
> The Board recognizes that consummation of the proposal would 
fo 
teclose the possibility that Citizens would expand to become a State-
V i d e competitor of Atlantic. However, considering the financial resources 
BK i 
CaPital position of Citizens, and the nature of Citizens' ownership, 
A 0 not believe that the record in this case reflects a probability 
th 
> absent this proposal, Citizens would expand to become a Statewide 
of Atlantic in the reasonably foreseeable future. In a recent 
act < 
0tl involving a similar proposal between two bank holding companies, 

2 6 7 7 
- 2 -
the Board noted that a substantial adverse effect on potential competition 
occurs only where there is a probability rather than a possibility that 
substantial competition would develop between the banking organizations 
involved absent the proposed affiliation.!^ 
With respect to the Greater Miami banking market, the Board 
believes that, absent this proposal, it is probable that Atlantic would 
Gllter de novo or through the acquisition of an existing bank in that 
Market. However, due to the structure of banking in that market we do 
n°t believe that the foreclosure of Atlantic's entry as an independent 
c°mpetitor would have any substantial adverse effects on competition in 
that market. Banking in the Miami market is becoming more and more com-
petitive. While the largest banking organization in the market—which 
i s also the largest banking organization in Florida—holds approximately 
23 
Per cent of market deposits, the next ten banking organizations hold 
market shares ranging from approximately 9 per cent to approximately 2 
Pe* cent. 
While consummation of the present proposal would eliminate 
Atl 
iantic as another potential entrant, the retail banking customers 
in 
the Greater Miami banking market are presently served by 40 banking 
°r8anizations. Foreclosure of the possibility of a 41st could hardly 
^ a V e adverse effects on competition for retail business. As to the 
°Ustomer in need of wholesale and regional banking services, the proposal, 
father than being anticompetitive, should in fact be procompetitive by 
Bui?ee Application Gf First Florida Bancorporation, 59 Federal Reserve 
^ i ^ i n , 183, at 184. 

-4-
2
6
7
8 
creating another institution in the Greater Miami market with already 
established relationships in other parts of the State and with aggregate 
resources of nearly $1 billion. 
The financial conditions and managerial resources of Atlantic, 
Citizens, and their respective groups of banks are generally satisfactory 
a n d their prospects appear favorable. These considerations are consis-
tent with approval of the application. The primary banking needs of the 
a r e a s served by both holding companies appear to be adequately met at 
th 
e Present time. However, consummation of the proposal would create 
Mother regional organization with resources more appropriate to meeting 
inter-regional needs. In addition, affiliation with Atlantic will enable 
Customers of Citizens1 banks to have immediate access to trust department 
Services, credit cards, and international banking. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend some 
Weight toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
tt* 
faction is in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r ^ the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-'' effective August 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
jg^ 
Secretary of the Board 
i T y ^ S for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Sheehan, 
and Holland. Voting against this action: Governor Brimmer. 
Serit and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

2
6
7
9 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I would deny this application. As recently as February 16, 1973, 
* dissented from the Board's action approving the application of First 
Florida Bancorporation (59 Federal Reserve Bulletin 183, at 185). This 
di 
ssent reflected my concern that Board action approving the merger of 
tW° folding companies evidenced the end of a Board policy followed con-
sistently over the last several years which sought to develop a well-
danced and competitive banking system in Florida. Today's action is 
further indication that the Board — in fact — has ceased to pursue 
t h i s Policy. 
In judging the competitive effects of this acquisition, the 
°Posal ought to be viewed as essentially an effort to acquire a banking 
(JWjy , 
Nation with a "main office" and "branches" all operating in the same 
Market 
the Greater Miami banking market. Approval of such an acquisi-
t io 
constitutes, I believe, a departure by the Board from its previous 
Well def-
tined position emphasizing foothold entry for the large Florida 
k^ttkin 
8 insitutions. Citizens is a viable local banking institution 
Which h 
nas continued to grow and develop in its own market. Seen in this 
> Citizens obviously is not a proper vehicle for foothold entry. 
^lotid a> deflecting their desire to enter the State's principal banking 
In view of the rapid growth of multi-bank holding companies in 
Lda, r 
^arkt 
° 
> 
- ~ i.. 
ood conceded by the Board's majority. However, Citizens has no 
Cets 1 *. 
> it is reasonable to expect Atlantic to enter the Miami market — 
4 llkelihc 
>Qpect 
us> at the present time, of becoming a Statewide competitor. But 
fact alone is not a sufficient reason to support its absorption. 

_ 2680 
- 2 -
After all there is nothing inherent in the Florida banking structure 
a t requires every viable bank to be part of a Statewide system. 
A t 
same time, I believe that a market extension by Atlantic into 
e Miami area would occur regardless of the Board's action in this 
Case, Only Atlantic's means of entry appears undecided; de novo or 
fo°thold. 
I do not regard as a foothold acquisition the proposed merger 
f a $100 million banking organization. Neither did the Board until 
its action in the First Florida case. For the period 1969-72, the Board 
Pproved two acquisitions in which the banks that were taken over had 
dp 
^ s i t s in excess of $100 million, and it denied an equal number. 
In 
fche Miami banking market, there are undoubtedly less anticompetitive 
P O t l*s Of e n t r y . 
The proposed merger offers no public benefits sufficient to 
tv7eigh the likely adverse competitive effects. The private benefits 
to Citizens1 stockholders as a result of this proposal are not the 
type* 
s of benefits the Board may properly weigh under the Bank Holding 
>a 
8crvi 
^Pany Act. The parties do not claim that the merger x^ould bring new 
ces not already available in the Miami banking market. Those new 
C e s Proposed for Citizens' customers through the merger (trust 
C e s and credit card services among others) can be developed through 
sPondent banks. Citizens is at no measurable competitive disadvantage 
*ith r espect to holding company subsidiaries in its markets. Moreover, 
a bHity to compete is the same as that of large, independent banks 
oth 
small holding companies. 

_ 2681 
-3-
In my judgment, the potentially adverse effects are not out-
Veighed by any public benefits that have been cited as likely to result 
the merger of Citizens with Atlantic. I believe this application 
sh°uld be denied. 
AuSust 1, 1973 

2682 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o- 
4 
/ ; o o V c o \ V : . . 
OF- T H E 
7/16/73 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
D r r i C I A U 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
RiLSt-V 
July 16, 1973 
. Ms, Naomi R. Sweeney 
O f f i c e of Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
^ a r Ms. Sweeney: 
I am writing in response to the Legislative Referral 
Memorandum of June 18, 1973, requesting the Board's views on a 
draft bill prepared by the Civil Service Commission "To provide 
the regulation of political activities of public employees, 
and for other purposes." 
In commenting on an early draft of the proposed legis-
• l-ation (letter of October 1, 1971, from Mr. Tynan Smith to Mr. 
ford 
H. Rommel). the Board recommended that the reference to 
the Board of .Governors of the Federal Reserve System in section 
7325(c) of Title 5 of the proposed bill be deleted. 
The Board 
also recommended deletion, as surplusage, from proposed sec-
tion 1501(4) of Title 5 of the earlier draft bill, the indication 
that: a Federal agency "does not include a member bank of the 
Federal Reserve-System". 
The Board's recommendations were adopted 
3-ri the revised draft bill, and the Board supports these changes, 
^he Board has no additional comments or suggestions to make on the 
Proposed Civil Service Commission bill at this time. 
« 
! 
Very truly yours, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 5 
7/16/73 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Marginal reserve requirements 
The Board of Governors has amended its Regulation D so as to 
apply the 8 per cent marginal reserve requirement to multiple maturity 
time deposits of $100,000 or more; the amount of such deposits out-
standing during the week ending May 16 will be included in a member 
bank's base for purposes of calculating the marginal reserve requirement. 
Board's action was taken pursuant to its authority under section 19 
the Federal Reserve Act to set reserve ratios for member banks 
(]-2 U.S.C. § 461) . 
There was no notice or public participation with respect to 
this amendment since such procedure would result in delay that would 
contrary to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
See 
§ 262.2(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure, 12 C'FR § 262.2(e). 
Effective immediately, section 204.5(a)(1)(ii)(b) and (2) (ii) (b) 
R e g u l a t i o n D Is amended to read as set forth in section 204.5(a)(1)(ii) 
3n<J (e)} and (2) (ii) (b) and (c_) , below. There was no deferred effective 
w i t h respect to t h i s amendment, as provided in section 553(d) of 
"Hie 5 } United States Code, since this amendment recognizes an exemp-
tX°n or relieves a restriction. 
5 U.S.C. § 553(d)(1). 

-2-
Effective August 30, 1973, section 204.5(a)(1)(ii)(a) and 
of Regulation 1) is amended to read as set forth below. 
On the effective dates stated above, section 204.5(a)(1)(ii) 
and (2)(ii) of Regulation D is amended to read as follows: 
^ 204.5 Reserve. Requirements. 
(a) Reserve percentages. Pursuant to the provisions of sec-
tion 19 of the Federal Reserve Act and § 204.2(a) and subject to para-
graph (c) of this section, the Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System hereby prescribes the following reserve balances that each 
Member bank of the Federal Reserve System is required to maintain on 
deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank of its district: 
(1) If not in a reserve city— 
rc 
•>'< 
vV 
(ii) 3 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 million, 
Plus 5 p e r cant of such deposits in excess of $5 million: 
Provided, 
ho 
—Hever, That a member bank shall maintain a reserve balance equal to 
8 
Per cent of the amount by which the daily average amount of time de-
P°s.its of the types hereinafter specified exceeds either the daily 
clverage amount of such time deposits outstanding during the computation 
erj.od ending May 16 , 3.973 , or $10 million, whichever is greater, and 
j U ch 8 per cent reserve percentage shall apply with respect to time 
d °-Posits o f 
following types: 
(a) time deposits of $100,000 or more; and 
(b) 
time deposits represented by promissory 
notes, acknowledgments of advance, due bills, or 
similar obligations issued by a member bank's 

affiliate, as provided in § 204.1(f); and 
(jc) time deposits represented by bank accept-
ances, as provided in § 204.1(f); 
and 
* 
"A- 
A 
(2) If in a reserve city (except as to any bank located in 
S uch a city that is permitted by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, pursuant to § 204.2(a)(2), to maintain the reserves 
specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph)— 
•J; 
vV ;k 
(ii) 3 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 million, 
Plus 5 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million: 
Provided, 
ilouever 9 That a member bank shall maintain a reserve balance equal to 
o 
per cent of the amount by which the daily average amount of time 
deposits of the types hereinafter specified exceeds either the daily 
average amount of such time deposits outstanding during the computation 
Period ending May 16, 1973, or $10 million, whichever is greater, arid 
Kuch 8 per cent reserve percentage shall apply with respect to time 
deposits of the following types: 
(a) time, deposits of $100,000 or more; and 
(b) time deposits represented by promissory 
notes, acknowledgments of advance, due bills, or 
similar obligations issued by a member bank's 
affiliate, as provided in § 204.1(f); and 
(c) time deposits represented by bank accept-
ances, as provided in § 204.1(f); 

and 
A 
* 
* 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 16, 1973. 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
(seal) 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

2687 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 6 
7/16/73 
CHAPTER IT—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Maximum rates of interest 
The Board of Governors has amended its Regulation Q so as to 
remove the distinction between single maturity and multiple maturity 
time deposits with respect to the maximum rates of interest payable by 
member banks on such deposits. This action, which was taken pursuant 
t o the Board's authority under section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to 
Prescribe rules governing the payment of interest on deposits, has the 
effect: of removing interest rate ceilings on multiple maturity time de-
Posits of $100,000 or more, and on multiple maturity time deposits with 
Maturities of 4 years or more in denominations of $1,000 or more. 
There was no notice, public participation, and deferred effec-
tive date with respect to this amendment because such procedure would 
r<3sult in delay that would be contrary to the public interest and serve 
n° useful purpose. 
See § 262.2(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure, 
1 2 
§ 262.2(e). 
Effective immediately, section 217.7 of the Board's Regulation 
^ 0-2 CFR Part 217) is amended to read as follows: 
2X7.7 Maximum rates of interest: payable by member banks on time and 
e p o s i t s . 
Pursuant to the provisions of section .19 of the Federal Re-
Act and § 217.3, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 

'J 
y 
System hereby prescribes the following maximum rates 
of interest per 
annum payable by member banks of the Federal Reserve System on time 
and savings deposits: 
(a) Time deposits with no maximum rate prescribed. There is 
maximum rate of interest presently prescribed (1) on any time deposit 
$100,000 or more, or (2) on any time deposit of $1,000 or more with 
a maturity of 4 years or more. 
(b) Time deposits with maximum rates prescribed. Except; as 
Provided in paragraph (a), no member bank shall pay interest on any time 
deposit at a rate in excess of the applicable rate under the following 
schedule: 
Maturity 
Maximum per cent 
30 days or more but less 
5 
than 90 days 
90 days or more but less 
5 1/2 
than 1 year 
1 year or more but less 
6 
than 30 months 
30 months or more 
• 6 J/2 
(c) Savings, deposits. No member bank shall pay interest at 
a rate in excess of 5 per cent on any savings deposit. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 16, 19 73. 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
^saa1) 
Chester B. Feldberg" 
Secretary of the Board 
t/ The limitations on rates of interest payable by member banks of the 
floral Reserve System on time and savings deposits, as prescribed herein, 
n o t applicable ;:o any deposit which is payable only at: an office of a 
^ loo.r bank located outside the States of the United States and the District 
4 Columbia. 
