MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 8, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 8, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
a t 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 1/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial review. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
Placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings 
Mr. Rippey then reviewed pertinent legislative developments. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion of Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, New York, 
1/ Other appropriate officers and staff of the Division also attended 
portions of the meeting. 

IZH 
1/8/73 
-2-
New York, to increase the portfolio of its subsidiary, Morgan & Cie, 
Paris, France, with special reporting requirements. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Manufacturers 
Hanover Corporation, Dover, Delaware, to acquire shares of Citizens 
Bank of Monroe, Monroe, New York, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Boone County 
Insurance Agency, Inc., Centralia, Missouri, to acquire additional 
shares of The First National Bank of Centralia, Centralia, Missouri, 
through acquisition of Centralia Insurance Agency, Inc., and authorized 
lssuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved, with the understanding that 
certain changes would be made in a draft that had been prepared, a letter 
to the Federal Trade Commission expressing concern over a proposed inter-
pretation of the Fair Credit Reporting Act relating to "protective 
bulletins." A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar and the 
meeting continued from this point with limited staff attendance. 
Discount rate. On January 4, 1973, the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco had established, subject to review and 
determination of the Board of Governors, a rate of 4-3/4 per cent 

1^9 
1/8/73 
-3-
(an increase from 4-1/2 per cent) on discounts for and advances to 
member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act; 
they had also acted to establish appropriately corresponding subsidiary 
rates on advances under other sections of the Act. The directors of 
the San Francisco Bank had indicated that their action was taken to 
bring the discount rate into closer alignment with market interest rates. 
During the discussion there was no disposition among the members 
present to approve the proposed increase today. However, there was a 
general view that the proper timing for an increase in the discount 
rate might not be far ahead. Consideration was given to the exposure 
to possible leaks of information if a decision were held in abeyance, 
but after further discussion it was agreed that the matter would be 
deferred for further consideration on January 11, 1973. 
Negotiable orders of withdrawal. On December 14, 1972, the 
Board agreed to hold in abeyance any contemplated action in connection 
with the use of negotiable orders of withdrawal by Massachusetts mutual 
savings banks pending action by Massachusetts State authorities. At 
today's meeting it was reported that the Massachusetts authorities had 
not yet taken action, but had requested that the Board continue to 
delay action„ 
It was therefore understood that the Board would delay 
further any action with respect to the situation. 
Grandfather privileges. Pursuant to the Board's action on 
November 30, 1972, a determination was issued on January 5, 1973, 

130 
1/8/73 
-4-
regarding the grandfather privileges under the Bank Holding Company 
of (1) Contract Leasing Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri, and (2) 
Clayt on Bankshares Corporation, also of St. Louis. A copy of the 
determination is attached as Item No. 5. 
Also pursuant to the Board's action on November 30, 1972, a 
determination was issued on January 5, 1973, regarding the grandfather 
Privileges of (1) South St. Louis Investment Company, St. Louis, Missouri, 
and (2) Hampton Bankshares Corporation, also of St. Louis. A copy of 
the determination is attached as Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

131 
B O A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N G R S 
OFGO'V/•. 
O F T H E 
Item No. 
1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 / 8 / 7 3 
0
|
« 
M ^ J U J T L P L L J S . : 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
•MllWmVZ: 
• 
J.? hlt^r/^. » 
ADDRESS OFTiCIAL CDHBS8PONDENCE 
•* 
TO THE. BOARD 
' ^ L R ^ V 
January 10, 1973 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
23 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 30, 1972, 
the Board of Governors amends its letter of February 8, 1972, 
relating to the quarterly reports on the investments of its 
subsidiary, Morgan & Cie, Paris, France, so the pertinent 
portion reads as follows: 
,r. . . less than F.Fr.2,000,000 . , 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smifch 
Secretary of the Board 
i 

132 
Item NOo 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/8/73 
MANUFACTURERS HANOVER CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, Dover, Delaware, a bank 
holdino 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U#SfC. 
842(a)(3)), to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) 
t h e V o ting shares of citizens Bank of Monroe, Monroe, New York ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application affording opportunity for interested 
p r s o n s to submit comments and views has been given in accordance with 
3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
n d the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
I l 8 h t o f t h e factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(c)). 
Applicant is the third largest banking organization in New 
York 
> controlling three banks with aggregate deposits of $9.2 billion 
Resenting approximately 9 per cent of all deposits of commercial 
in the State, 
Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $25 million) 
Would 
not change Applicant's ranking among banking organizations in New 
and would not significantly increase the concentration of banking 
res°urces in the State. 
Bank is the eighth largest of 15 banks in the Middletown 
anlUng market, controlling about 5 per cent of total deposits in 
'J/-
to tf 1 1 banking data are as of June 30, 1972, except for those relating 
Middletown banking market which are as of June 30, 1970, and are 
a P D^ S t e d t o reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions 
t^oved by the Board through December 31, 1972. 

133 
-2-
that 
a market. 
Applicant's nearest banking subsidiary to Bank is 
32 
®iles distant and it appears that there is no significant 
listing competition between this subsidiary or the other banking 
Subsidiaries of Applicant and Bank." 
Nor is there a reasonable 
Probability of significant future competition developing between Ap-
plicant's banking subsidiaries and Bank since these subsidiaries are 
Prohibited until 1976 from branching into the Middletown market. On 
the 
other hand, Applicant could open a de novo bank in the Middletown 
^rket. However, this is unlikely as that market is relatively un-
esirable as measured by the ratios of per capita income and population 
P e r b a n king office compared to the respective Statewide averages. The 
accluisitton of Bank by Applicant would not foreclose entry by other bank 
M d i t 
^ companies into the Middletown market since eight independent 
\ remain as potential members of other bank holding companies. 
entry by Applicant may have a procompetitive effect by enabling 
Bank t- u 
to be a stronger competitor for the largest bank in the market, 
which -to 
J-s more than two-and-a-half times as large as the second ranking 
k^nk 
n 
. On the basis of all f n c t f j before the Board, including those afore 
nie LI t n 
J 
J-oned, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposal herein 
0 u ld not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. 
M i d d l e t ° w n haitHog iimrl'et is approximated by Sullivan and Orange 
^Ont 
W t t h t h e e x c l u s i o n o f t h e cities of Newburg, Newburg City, 
C 0 u n ^ m e r y > N e w Windsor, Cornwall and Highlands, all located in Orange 
3/ 
b a n i A p p U c a n t P r e s e n t l y has pending two other applications to acquire 
However, neither of these banks are in clone proximity to Bank. 

134 
-2-
The financial condition, managerial resources and future 
prospects o f Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank appear satis-
factory and a r e consistent with approval of the application. Con-
siderations relating to the convenience and needs of the community to 
b e Served are also consistent with approval of the application. It 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
W° U l d b e in the public interest and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record the application is approved for 
Reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
th-f 
s Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
thi 
s Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
r by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective January 8, 1973 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tsEAL] 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
it-hell, Daane, Sheehan, and Buchor. Absent and not voting: 
airman Burns and Governor Brimmer. 

135 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
It:en; N o° 3 
1/8/73 
BOONE COUNTY INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Additional Shares of Bank 
Boone County Insurance Agency, Inc., Centralia, Missouri, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire an additional 25.65 per cent of the voting shares of 
The First National Bank of Centralia, Centralia, Missouri ("Bank") through 
acquisition of Centralia Insurance Agency, Inc., Centralia, Missouri 
("Centralia"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
* 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
Xight of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant and Centralia were organized in 1964 and are both 
registered one-bank holding companies, wholly-owned by the same family. Both 
firms have approximately the same number of shares of Bank and the insurance 
agency activities of each firm are conducted at the same premises by the 
San*e individual.-^ Bank, with deposits of $8.5 million is the fifth largest 
o f eight banks in Boone County with 5.54 per cent of the County's commercial 
bank deposits. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1971.) Since the 
Present application is in the nature of a corporate reorganization whereby 
^entralia's assets are to be acquired and its liabilities are to be assumed 
by Applicant, approval of the present proposal x^ill have no competitive 
effects. 
A/ Applicant may continue to engage in insurance agency activities under 
^ e exemption found in subsection 4(c) (ii). 

136 
- 2 -
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
a n d prospects of Applicant and Bank are consistent with approval as are 
considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
involved. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the transaction 
j-
A S consistent with the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
rcasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 8, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Brimmer. 

1.37 
'Sfiiov,',-. 
i
§
» 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
item No. 4 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1/8/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OrnaiAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
RtV-
January 9, 19 73 
The Honorable Miles Kirkpatrick 
Chairman 
Scleral Trade Commission 
Sixth and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20580 
bear Mr. Kirkpatrick: 
The Board wishes to express its concern over the amended 
version of the Commission's proposed interpretation concerning 
"protective bulletins" under*the Fair Credit Reporting Act published 
°n l[r4y 
1972. The present proposal U designed to prohibit the 
issuance of these bulletins by trade groups including state and 
national banking associations. 
As you know, the nation's banks are presently engaged in 
a struggle against the alarming increase in criminal activities 
directed toward financial institutions. Both the Federal enforcement 
agencies and the Congress have been deeply concerned about the problem 
of bank security, as evidenced by the enactment of the "Bank Protection 
Act of 1968." On January 3, 1973, the bank supervisory agencies took 
further steps to strengthen their implementation of that Act in an 
effort to protect the country's financial institutions from unlawful 
conduct. The effect of the Commission's proposal could be to eliminate 
a valuable existing tool used by financial institutions in protecting 
themselves. 
While the provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act are 
by no means crystal clear, the Board does not believe that they compe-
the interpretation which the Commission proposes to place upon them. 
The protective bulletins used by the banking industry typically contain 
a Physical description, photograph, and summary of an individual's 
alleged unlawful conduct", including his modusJ^&^JiLL- 
Usually, some 

The Honorable Miles Kirkpatrick 
-2-
forrn of arrest process is outstanding against any named individuals. 
The sole purpose of the bulletins is to warn financial institutions 
about the threat of criminal activities. It is significant that law 
enforcement agencies are also the recipients of copies of these bulle-
tins. The reports are not designed, nor do we believe used, to assess 
any individual's eligibility for credit, employment, insurance, or any 
other legitimate business transaction. Their single purpose is to 
protect banks against unlawful conduct. In short, the Board does not 
believe chat these bulletin? fall within the admittedly broad category 
of "consumer reports" to which the Fair Credit Reporting Act was 
directed. 
Given the very serious criminal problem to which these 
bulletins are directed, the substantial question whether Congress 
intended to restrict their distribution by enactment of the Fair Credit 
Reporting Act, and the real uncertainty whether cite Act, even read 
narrowly and literally, encompasses such bulletins, the Board urges 
the Commission to reconsider .its proposed interpretation and reinstate 
the substance of the version previously proposed on March 8, 1972, with 
respect to protective bulletins of the type described above. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
i 
I 

14 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o° 5 
1/8/73 
CONTRACT LEASING CORPORATION 
CLAYTON BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Determination Regarding "Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect to 
nonbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amendments 
to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Holding Act. 
pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered in 1970" may continue 
to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, in nonbanlcing activities 
that such company was lawfully engaged in on June 30, 1968 (or on a date 
subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of activities carried on as a 
^sult of the acquisition of such company or subsidiary, pursuant to a 
binding written contract entered into on or before June 30, 1968, of another 
company engaged in such activities at the time of the acquisition), and 
has been continuously engaged in since June 30, 1968 (or such subsequent 
date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such grandfather 
Privileges if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the Board 
determines that such action is necessary to prevent undue concentration 
of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or 
unsound banking practices. With respect to a company that controls a bank 
with assets in excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, the 
Board is required to make such a determination within a two year period. 

140 
-2-
Notice of the Board's proposed review of the grandfather 
Privileges of Contract Leasing Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri, and 
of Clayton Bankshares Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri, and an opportunity 
interested persons to submit comments and views or request a hearing, 
been given (37 F.R. 22414). The time for filing comments, views, 
and requests has expired, and all those received have been considered by 
the Board in light of the factors set forth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following findings. 
Contract Leasing Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri ("Contract Leasing"), 
0x,Jns approximately 34 per cent of Clayton Bancshares Corporation, St. Louis, 
Missouri ("Clayton"), and has owned such shares continuously since before 
June 30, 1968. Each of these companies became a bank holding company on 
December 31, 1970, as a result of the 1970 Amendments to the Act, by virtue 
Clayton's ownership of approximately 95 per cent of the outstanding voting 
shares of Clayton Bank, Clayton, Missouri ("Bank") (assets of $62 million 
a s of December 31, 1970). Bank, control of which was acquired by Clayton 
in 1958, had total deposits of approximately $84 million as of December 31, 
representing 5.0 per cent of the total deposits in the 45 commercial 
k^nks in St. Louis County and 1.4 per cent of the total deposits in the St. 
Louis market, and was the nineteenth largest bank in the State. Bank's 
management, financial condition, and prospects are regarded as satisfactory, 
and the Board has found no evidence of any unsound banking practices. 

Ill 
-3-
1/ 
Contract Leasing 
reports that it does not engage directly 
^ any activities except for its ownership of shares of Clayton. 
Clayton owns the real property on which Bank and its drive-
2/ 
i n facility are located. 
In addition, Clayton engages directly in the 
following activities: conducting audits of affiliated banks and preparing 
rePorts to the respective boards of directors of those banks; providing 
and supervising messenger and delivery service between affiliated banks 
and affiliated corporations; supervising new business development, install-
ment loan, and bank operations of affiliated banks; and supervising auto-
mation operations of the affiliated banks. It appears that all of the 
above activities have been engaged in continuously since June 30, 1968, 
and are eligible for retention by virtue of the grandfather privileges of 
Contract Leasing and Clayton ("Registrants"). 
Through its banking subsidiary, Clayton has a one-third interest 
in one non-banking subsidiary, Databank Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri, 
a company providing data processing services to Bank and two affiliated 
1/ On the facts before the Board to the effect that a Mr. James owns 100 
Per cent of the voting shares of Contract Leasing, this holding company may 
b e entitled to the exemption in § 4(c)(ii) of the Act, by virtue of which the 
general prohibitions of 5 4 against nonbanking activities are not applicable 
t o a holding company covered in 1970 more than 85 per cent of the voting shares 
°f which was owned on June 30, 1968, and continuously thereafter by members 
°f the same family. 
•2/ Section 4(c)(1)(A) of the Act enables a bank holding company to hold 
shares of a company engaged solely in holding or operating properties used 
Wholly or substantially by any banking subsidiary of such bank holding 
c°mpany in the operations of such banking subsidiary or acquired for such 
future use. 

142 
-4-
banks. Although Databank Corporation was acquired after June 30, 1968, and 
tllus is not eligible for grandfather benefits, Registrants' retention 
o f their indirect interest in this subsidiary of Rank appears to be 
Permissible under § 4(c)(5) of the Act. 
In view of the size of the assets held by Contract Leasing 
and Clayton ($.8 million and $3.6 million, respectively, as of December 31, 
l970), it appears that continuation of their nonbanking activities would not 
result in an undue concentration of resources; and, in view of the facts 
herein, particularly the fact that Registrants perform services only for 
Bank and affiliated banks and corporations, it appears that continuation 
o f the aforesaid nonbanking and banking activities of Registrants would 
n°t result in decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest or 
unsound banking practices. 
On the basis of the foregoing and all the facts before the 
B°ard, it appears that the volume, scope, and nature of the activities of 
e8istrants and their subsidiaries do not demonstrate an undue concentra-
tion of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest 
n°r unsound banking practices. 
There appears to be no reason to require Registrants to terminate 
their grandfathered interests. It is the Board's judgment that, at this 
tl 
me, termination of the grandfather privileges of Registrants is not 
Pessary In order to prevent an undue concentration of resources, decreased 
° r unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 
°»ever, this determination is not authority to enter into any activity 

-4-
143 
that was not engaged in on June 30, 1968 and continuously thereafter, or 
at*y activity that is not the subject to this determination, nor is this 
determination authority for Registrants to provide services for banks in 
Edition to those Registrants have been serving since before June 30, 
1968. 
A significant alteration in the nature or extension of Registrants' 
activities or a change in location thereof (significantly different from 
any described in this determination) will be cause for a re-evaluation by 
the Board of Registrants' activities under the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of 
the Act, that is, whenever the alteration or change is such that the Board 
finds that a termination of the grandfather privileges is necessary to 
Prevent an undue concentration of resources or any of the other evils 
designated in the Act* No merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets 
°ther than in the ordinary course of business, nor acquisition of any interest 
^ a going concern, to which the Registrants or any nonbank subsidiary 
thereof is a party, may be consummated without prior approval of the 
®oard„ Further, the provision of any credit, property, or service by 
the Registrants or any subsidiary thereof shall not be subject to any con-
dition which, if imposed by a bank, would constitute an unlawful tie-in 
arfangement under 5 106 of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
The determination herein does not preclude a later review, by 
the Board, of Registrants' nonbank activities and a future determination 
by the Board in favor of termination of grandfather benefits of Registrants. 
The determination herein is subject to the Board's authority to require 

144 
- 6 -
m°dification or termination of the activities of Registrants or of their 
nonbanlcing subsidiary as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof. 
3/ 
By determination of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 5, 
1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
l7~Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
trimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

145 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No0 6 
1/8/73 
SOUTH ST. LOUIS INVESTMENT COMPANY 
HAMPTON BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Determination Regarding "Grandfather" Privileges 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ("grandfather" privileges) with respect 
to nonbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 
Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the 
Bank Holding Company Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a 
"company covered in 1970" may continue to engage, either directly 
°r through a subsidiary, in nonbanking activities that such a company 
wa s lawfully engaged in on June 30, 1968 (or on a date subsequent 
to June 30, 1968, in the case of activities carried on as a result 
of the acquisition by such company or subsidiary, pursuant to a 
binding written contract entered into on or before June 30, 1968, 
of another company engaged in such activities at the time of the 
acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in since June 30, 1968 
(or such subsequent date). 
Section 4(a)(2) of the Act provides, inter alia, that the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may terminate such 
grandfather privileges if, having due regard to the purposes of 
the Act, the Board determines that such action is necessary to 
Prevent undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair 
competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 
With respect to a company that controls a bank with assets in 
excess of $60 million on or after December 31, 1970, the Board is 
required to make such determination within a two year period. 

Notice of the Boaird's j^ropbsed review of grandfather 
Privileges of South St. Louis Investment Company, St. Louis, 
Missouri, and of Hampton Bankshares Corporation, St. LouisMissouri, 
and an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views or request a hearing, has been given (37 F.R. 22414). The 
time for filing comments, views, and requests has expired, and 
a H those received have been considered by the Board in light of 
the factors set forth in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
On the evidence before it, the Board makes the following 
findings. South St, Louis Investment Company, St. Louis, Missouri 
< South St. Louis"), owns 53 per cent of Hampton Bankshares Cor-
poration, St. Louis, Missouri ("Hampton1') and has owned such shares 
c°ntinuously since before June 30, 1968. Each of these companies 
became a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result of 
the 1970 Amendments to the Act, by virtue of Hampton's direct 
°wnership of approximately 56 per cent of the outstanding voting 
shares of Hampton Bank of St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri ("Bank") 
(assets of $64 million as of June 30, 1971).. .Bank, control of 
which was acquired by Hampton in 1957, had total deposits of approximately $61 
m i H i o n as of December 31, 1971representing 1.7 per cent of the total 
deposits-in the 27 commercial banks•in the1 City of St. Louis, and 1,0 per cent 
total deposits in the St. Louis market, and was the twenty-eighth 
•^argest bank in the State. Bank's management, financial condition and 
Prospects are regarded as satisfactory, and the Board has found no 
evidence of any unsound banking practices. 

147 
-3-
South St. Louis"^ reports that it does not engage directly 
in any activities except for its ownership of shares of Hampton. 
H a m p t o n engages directly in the following nonbanking 
activities: procuring and managing supplies for affiliated banks 
and corporations; assisting in establishing policy and supervision 
°f systems and methods of operations for affiliated banks and 
c o r p o r a t i o n s , and owning, leasing, and managing real estate used 
and occupied by Bank and by affiliated banks and corporations. It 
appears t h a t all of the above activities have been engaged in 
continuously since June 30, 1968, and are eligible for retention 
by virtue of the grandfather privileges of South St. Louis and 
Hampton ("Registrants"). 
Bank has two non-banking subsidiaries (acquired after 
December 31, 1970): Hampton Bank Building Corporation, a wholly-
owned subsidiary formed to hold the land and operate the building 
that Bank will occupy; and Databank Corporation, a corporation 
f o r m e d by Bank and two other banks to provide data processing 
services for the three banks. The activities conducted by Hampton 
Bank Building Corporation appear to be exempt from the general 
Prohibitions of § A of "the Act, by virtue of § 4(c)(1)(A), and 
the interest in Databank Corporation appears to be permissible 
on the basis of § 4(c)(5) of the Act. 
T/~ ~On the facts before the Board to the effect that a Mr. James owns 100 
Per cent of South St. Louis, this holding company may be entitled to the 
exemption in § 4(c)(ii) of the Act, by virtue of which the general prohibi-
tions of § 4 against nonbanking activities are not applicable to a holding 
company covered in 1970 more than 85 per cent of the voting shares of which -
was owned on June 30, 1968, and continuously thereafter by members of the 
same family. 

148 
-4-
South St. Louis and Hampton ranked as the twentieth largest 
inking organization in the State as of June 30, 1972, by virtue of 
their control of Bunk. In view of the size of the assets held by 
South St. Louis ($1.4 million as of June 30, 1972, and Hampton ($3.5 
million as of December 31, 1971), it appears that continuation of their 
nonbanking activities and retention of Banks' subsidiaries would not 
result in an undue concentration of resources; and in view of the 
facts herein, particularly the fact that Registrants perform services 
°nly for Bank and affiliated banks and corporations, it appears that 
continuation of the aforesaid nonbanking and banking activities of 
Registrants will not result in decreased nor -unfair competition, 
conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 
On the basis of the foregoing and all the facts before 
the Board, it appears that the volume, scope, and nature of the 
activities of Registrants and their subsidiaries do not demonstrate 
an undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, 
conflicts of interest nor unsound banking practices. 
There appears to be no reason to require Registrants 
to terminate their grandfathered interests. It is the Board's 
judgment that, at this time, termination of the grandfather 
Privileges of Registrants is not necessary in order to prevent 
an undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair com-
petition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 
However, this determination is not authority to enter into any 
activity that was not engaged in on June 30, 1968 and continuously 
thereafter, or any activity that is not the subject of this 
determination; nor is this determination authority for Registrants 

5 
-3-
to provide services for banks in addition to those Registrants have 
been serving since before June 30, 1968. 
A significant alteration in the nature or extension of 
Registrants' activities or a change in location thereof (significantly 
different from any described in this determination) will be cause 
for a re-evaluation by the Board of Registrants' activities under 
the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of the Act, that is, whenever the 
alteration or change is such that the Board finds that a termination 
°f the grandfather privileges is necessary to prevent an undue 
concentration of resources or any of the other evils designated 
in the Act. No merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets other 
than in the ordinary course of business, nor acquisition of any 
interest in a going concern, to which the Registrants or any 
nonbank subsidiary thereof is a party, may be consummated without 
Prior approval of the Board. Further, the provision of any credit, 
Property, or service by the Registrants or any subsidiary thereof 
shall not be subject to any condition which, if imposed by a bank, 
would constitute an unlawful tie-in arrangement under § 106 
°f the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
The determination herein does not preclude a later 
review, by the Board, of Registrants' nonbank activities and 
a future determination by the Board in favor of termination of 
grandfather benefits of Registrants. The determination herein 
is subject to the Board's authority to require modification or 

-6-
termination of the activities of Registrants or any of their 
nonbanking subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure 
compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the 
Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent 
evasions thereof. 
2/ 
By determination of the Board of Governors, 
effective 
January 5, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane. 
trimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
